Is it wrong to believe that God made only this world, just like it’s not especially good to believe He made millions of worlds filling endless space? 

But when a religion is built on a creation story that’s not true, and it mixes so closely with that story that they can’t be separated, things change a lot. 

Then, mistakes that aren’t really bad on their own can cause big problems. The truth becomes super important because it helps prove if the religion is real or not, based on evidence.

Because of this, people have a moral duty to find all the evidence they can from the universe or anything else to understand religion better. 

But the supporters of Christianity seemed scared of this and often fought against science and even hurt the scientists. If Newton or Descartes had lived 300 or 400 years ago and tried to study like they did, they probably wouldn’t have survived. And if Franklin had done his lightning experiments then, he might have died in flames.

Later, people blamed the Goths and Vandals for this, but Christians don’t want to admit that they themselves were responsible for stopping progress.

There’s a story about an ancient writer named Feirghill, whose Latin name was Virgilius. The British Museum has a copy of his work, which led to him being accused of heresy by Boniface, the Archbishop of Mayence.

These two were leaders of rival groups: the British and Roman parties. The British leader even accused Boniface of bad religious practices. Boniface said sorry but kept fighting against Virgilius.

The Pope at the time, Zachary II, said that if Virgilius really believed there was another world under the earth with other people, sun, and moon, he would be excommunicated and punished by the church.

Though this was a serious charge in the middle of the eighth century, Virgilius was not punished. Boniface, who accused him, was killed in 755. Virgilius probably made his ideas fit with church beliefs.

The main problem was the idea that there could be people who weren’t descended from Adam. Virgilius became Bishop of Salzburg in 768 and was called "Geometer and Solitary" or "lone traveler."

People suspected him of heresy until 1233 when Pope Gregory IX made him a saint alongside St. Boniface.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
