Don’t think you have to respect your Creator just because you hear scary stories from the Bible or listen without really caring. The proof I’ve shown, and will keep showing, that the Bible isn’t really reliable will upset some stubborn priests, but it will help millions of people. It will free them from the harsh ideas about God that priests and the Bible have put in their heads—ideas that don’t match how kind and fair God really is.

Now, I want to talk about the two books of Kings and the two books of Chronicles. These books are all about history and mostly focus on the lives and actions of Jewish kings, who were mostly pretty bad people. But these stories don’t really affect us any more than stories about Roman emperors or the Trojan War do. Also, since we don’t know who wrote these books or anything about them, we can’t really trust everything they say. Like many old histories, they mix fact and fiction, and because so much time has passed, they seem outdated and boring.

I will mainly use these books to compare them with each other and with other parts of the Bible to show the confusion, contradictions, and cruelty in what’s supposed to be God’s word.

The first book of Kings starts with King Solomon’s reign, which the Bible says was around 1015 B.C. The second book ends around 588 B.C., just after King Zedekiah’s time, when Nebuchadnezzar captured Jerusalem and took the Jews to Babylon. Together, these two books cover 427 years.

The two books of Chronicles tell the history of the same time period and mostly the same people, but they were written by a different author. It wouldn’t make sense for the same person to write the same history twice. The first book of Chronicles starts with family trees from Adam to Saul (covering nine chapters), then begins with King David’s reign. The last book ends around 588 B.C., like the books of Kings. The last two verses go 52 years further, to 536 B.C., but those verses don’t really belong there, as I will explain when I talk about the book of Ezra.

Besides telling about Saul, David, and Solomon, who ruled all Israel, the two books of Kings also give short stories about the lives of 88 other kings.
