When you read the same book, sometimes the history doesn’t quite match up. For example, in 2 Kings, chapter 1, verse 17, it says that after King Ahaziah of Israel died, Jehoram (or Joram), who was from Ahab’s family, became king during the second year of Jehoram (or Joram), son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. But then in chapter 8, verse 16, it says that in the fifth year of Joram, son of Ahab, King Jehoshaphat was still ruling Judah, and Jehoram, son of Jehoshaphat, started his reign. So one part says Joram of Judah started ruling in the second year of Joram of Israel, but another part says Joram of Israel started ruling in the fifth year of Joram of Judah.

Some really strange events that are said to have happened during certain kings’ reigns are missing in other parts of the history about the same king. For example, after Solomon died, two rival kings were Rehoboam and Jeroboam. In 1 Kings chapters 12 and 13, it tells about Jeroboam offering burnt incense and a man called a “man of God” shouting against the altar. The man said, “A child named Josiah will be born in the house of David, and he will burn the bones of priests who burn incense on you.” Then, when King Jeroboam heard this, he tried to grab the man, but his hand dried up and he couldn’t pull it back. You’d think such a crazy event happening to a major king right after Israel split into two countries would be written in both histories if it really happened.

Even though people later believed everything the prophets said, it looks like the prophets or historians didn’t fully believe each other. They knew each other too well to agree on everything.

There is also a long story about Elijah in Kings that goes through several chapters. It ends in 2 Kings 2:11, saying, “As Elijah and Elisha were walking and talking, a chariot and horses of fire appeared, separated them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind.” But the author of Chronicles, even though he talks about Elijah, doesn’t mention this amazing story at all.
