Nehemiah also gives a list of the families who returned, along with the number of people in each family. He starts like Ezra did, saying (vii. 8): "The children of Parosh, two thousand three hundred and seventy-two," and continues listing all the families. (This list is a bit different from Ezra’s list.)

In verse 66, Nehemiah adds up the total and says, just like Ezra did, "The whole group was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty." But if you add up the details, the total is only 31,089, which means there’s a mistake of 11,271. These writers might be okay for making Bible stories, but not for anything where you need exact truth.

The next book is Esther. If Queen Esther thought it was an honor to be a royal mistress to King Ahasuerus, or to compete with Queen Vashti—who refused to show up to a wild party with a drunk king and his guests (they had been drinking for seven days and were having fun)—then that’s up to Esther and Mordecai. It’s not my business, at least. Also, the story seems like a made-up tale and we don’t even know who wrote it. So, I’ll move on to the book of Job.

The book of Job is very different from the other books we talked about. There’s no betrayal or murder. It’s about a person thinking deeply about the ups and downs of life, sometimes feeling crushed but also fighting back. The book is written in a dramatic way, showing a person who tries to accept his fate but also struggles with being upset. Job isn’t very patient; he often feels angry, but he tries to control his feelings and decides to force himself to be content even when bad things keep happening.

I’ve talked respectfully about the book of Job before, but now I’ve learned more. From all the evidence, the book of Job is not really part of the Bible.

I’ve read the opinions of two Hebrew experts, Abenezra and Spinoza, who say the book of Job doesn’t feel like a Hebrew book. The style and story don’t seem Hebrew. They think it was translated from another language into Hebrew, and that the author was not a Jew. The character called Satan appears here for the first and only time in the Bible.
