Understanding something well usually starts with having a clear idea in your mind. That’s the best way to really learn. That’s all for the introduction.

Ever since I was old enough to think, I either doubted Christianity or found it really strange—I wasn’t sure which. I remember when I was about seven or eight, I heard a sermon from a very religious relative. It was about something called Redemption, which means the Son of God dying for us.

After the sermon, I went into the garden and as I walked down the steps (I remember the exact spot), I felt upset about what I’d just heard. I thought it was like saying God, who is all-powerful, acted like an angry man who killed his own son because he couldn’t get revenge any other way. I knew a man would be punished if he did that, so I didn’t understand why they would preach something like that.

These weren’t silly thoughts; they were serious. I thought God was too good to do something like that, and too powerful to need to do it. I still believe that today. I also think any religion that shocks a child’s mind like that can’t be true.

It seems like Christian parents are embarrassed to explain their religion’s main ideas to their kids. Sometimes they teach them about morals or talk about how good Providence is. (In Christian stories, there are actually five “gods”: God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, Providence, and Nature.) But the story about God the Father killing his son, or making people do it, is too hard for parents to tell their children. Saying it was to make people better just makes it worse. It’s like saying murder is a good example, which makes no sense. Saying it’s a mystery is just an excuse because it’s hard to believe.

This is very different from Deism, which is simple and pure. A true deist believes in just one God and focuses on admiring God’s power, wisdom, and kindness shown through the world. They try to copy God’s good qualities in everything they do, whether it’s moral, scientific, or mechanical.

The religion that is closest to true Deism, especially in being kind and moral, is the one followed by Quakers. But...
