There were seventeen kings and one queen called kings of Judah, and nineteen kings called kings of Israel. Right after Solomon died, the Jewish nation split into two groups. Each group picked its own king, and they fought a lot against each other.

These two books mostly tell stories about murders, betrayals, and wars. The Jews had gotten used to being really cruel to the Canaanites, whose land they had violently taken, saying God gave it to them. Later, they acted just as cruel to each other. Less than half of their kings died naturally. Sometimes whole families were wiped out so the next king could take power. After a few years—or even just a few months—these new kings often met the same violent end.

In 2 Kings chapter 10, there’s a story about two baskets full of children’s heads—seventy heads—left at the city gate. These were the children of Ahab, killed because Jehu, who was made king by Elisha (a man claiming to be from God), wanted to kill the old king. When Menahem became king of Israel after killing Shallum, who ruled for only one month, it says in 2 Kings chapter 15 that Menahem attacked the city of Tiphsah because they didn’t open the gates for him. He even killed all the pregnant women there by cutting them open.

If we think God chose one nation to be special, we’d expect that nation to be the best example of kindness and goodness. But the ancient Jews were anything but. They were violent and cruel, copying terrible leaders like Moses, Aaron, Joshua, Samuel, and David. They were known all over the world for being barbaric and wicked. If we don’t ignore the truth, we have to admit that calling them “God’s chosen people” is a lie made up by Jewish priests to hide how bad they were. Some Christian priests, just as corrupt and cruel, have believed this lie too.

The two books of Chronicles tell the same stories of crimes again, but the author leaves out some kings’ reigns. The story jumps back and forth between the kings of Judah and kings of Israel so much that it becomes hard to follow.
