There were only a few really great poets who could have written the book of Homer. A person who was able to write it wouldn’t have given credit to someone else because they wanted their own fame. Similarly, only a very skilled mathematician could have written Euclid’s Elements.

But when it comes to the books of the New Testament, especially parts about Jesus rising from the dead and going up to heaven, anyone who could tell a simple ghost story or talk about someone walking could have made up these stories. The way these stories are told is really bad. So, the chance that these books were fake is way higher than the chance that Homer or Euclid’s works were fake.

Today, many priests and bishops can give a sermon or translate a bit of Latin, especially if it’s been translated many times before. But can any of them write poetry like Homer or do math like Euclid? Most priests only know very basic stuff, like simple letters or easy math, and that’s enough for them to have written all the books of the New Testament if they had lived back then.

Boulanger, who wrote about Paul’s life, collected stories from church history and early Christian writers about what different Christian groups believed when the New Testament was decided to be the word of God. For example, the Marcionists said the gospel writers lied. The Manichæans, a big group early on, rejected all the New Testament and used other books instead.

The Cerinthians didn’t accept the Acts of the Apostles. The Encratites and the Sevenians didn’t accept the Acts or Paul’s letters. Around the year 400, Chrysostom said many people didn’t even know who wrote the Acts or what the book was about.

St. Irene, who lived earlier, said the Valentinians and some other groups thought the scriptures had mistakes and contradictions. The Ebionites or Nazarenes, the first Christians, rejected all of Paul’s letters and thought he was a fake. They said he was originally a pagan who came to Jerusalem, lived there, and wanted to marry the high priest’s daughter. He got circumcised but couldn’t marry her, so he fought with the Jews and wrote against the rules like circumcision and the Sabbath.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
