Was this written after Joshua died? This story must have been written by a historian who lived after Joshua, and also after the elders who lived longer than Joshua.

There are several parts in the book of Joshua that talk about time in a general way. These parts suggest that the book was written long after Joshua’s time, but they don’t say exactly when. However, one part clearly says that the book couldn’t have been written until after the elders died.

Even though the parts I’m talking about don’t give a specific time, they suggest the book was written much later than just the time between Joshua’s death and the elders’ death. For example, in chapter 10, verse 14, it talks about the sun standing still over Gibeon and the moon in the valley of Ajalon because Joshua asked for it. This story sounds like something made up to entertain kids.

The passage says, “There was no day like that before it or after it when the Lord listened to a man’s voice.” Saying “after it” means a long time passed after that day. It wouldn’t make sense if it only meant a short time.

This story about the sun and moon standing still is clearly a myth. If it really happened, everyone in the world would know about it. Half the people would wonder why the sun didn’t rise, and the other half why it didn’t set. But no nation has such a story.

Also, why would the moon need to stand still? Moonlight during the day when the sun is shining doesn’t make sense. It’s like a poem or a figure of speech, like in the song of Deborah and Barak that says, “The stars in their courses fought against Sisera.”

But the story of Joshua is less believable than a saying from Mahomet, who told people that even if they came with the sun in one hand and the moon in the other, it wouldn’t change what he was doing. For Joshua to be more impressive, he would have needed to carry the sun and moon in his pockets and shine them whenever he wanted, like Guy Fawkes and his lantern.

The line between something amazing and something ridiculous is very thin. One step above amazing is ridiculous, and one step above ridiculous is amazing again. But this story, without the fancy words, shows how little Joshua really understood. He should have told the earth to stop moving instead.
