A person who looks almost the same as a regular animal actually comes from the huge machine and design of the universe. Our ancestors watched the movements of the stars and planets carefully, even in the early days of the world, and that’s how this knowledge came to us on Earth. It wasn’t Moses, the prophets, Jesus Christ, or his apostles who gave us this knowledge. God is the great creator of everything, the first thinker, and the original teacher of all science. So, we should respect God and remember the hard work of those who came before us.

If we didn’t know anything about machines today, and if a person could see the universe’s structure and how it works like I described before, they would soon think about building some machines like we have now. That idea would grow and improve over time. Or if someone showed them a model of the universe, called an orrery, and made it move, they would come to the same understanding. Seeing this would help them learn useful things for themselves and society, and also help them believe in and respect the Creator more than boring Bible stories. If people have to preach, they should talk about things that teach us something real and helpful.

The universe itself is like an endless book full of lessons. Every part of science, whether about the shape of the universe or the systems in it, teaches us something true. 

The people who wrote the Bible tried to explain creation in the first chapter of Genesis but showed how little they really understood. They said there were three days and nights before the sun existed, but day and night actually happen because of the sun’s presence or absence. Also, it’s a silly idea to think God said, “Let there be light,” like a magician saying “Presto, be gone” to make things happen. Moses and his rod are like a magician and his wand.

Longinus called this way of speaking “sublime,” but by the same idea, a magician would be sublime too because they talk the same way. When writers and critics talk about something being sublime, they don’t see how close it is to being silly. Their idea of sublime, like some parts of Edmund Burke’s sublime and beautiful, is like a windmill barely seen in fog that imagination turns into a flying mountain, an angel, or a flock of wild geese.
