He went because he was called, and he used that chance to tell Zedekiah to give up and surrender to Nebuchadnezzar.

In chapter 34, verses 2-5, Jeremiah prophesied to Zedekiah, saying: "This is what the Lord says: I will give this city to the king of Babylon, and he will burn it down. You will not escape his hand. You will be caught and handed over to him. Your eyes will see the king of Babylon’s eyes, and you will talk to him face to face. Then you will go to Babylon. But listen, Zedekiah king of Judah, the Lord says you will not die by the sword but will die peacefully. Like your ancestors, the former kings, they will honor you with perfumes and mourn you, saying, ‘Ah, Lord!’ because I have spoken this, says the Lord."

But instead of what Jeremiah said happening, chapter 3, verses 10-11 tell a different story. The king of Babylon killed Zedekiah’s sons in front of him, then blinded Zedekiah, chained him up, and took him to Babylon, where he stayed in prison until he died.

So, what can we say about these prophets? They seem to be fake and lying.

Jeremiah, however, didn’t suffer those bad things. Nebuchadnezzar liked him and put him under the guard captain’s watch in chapter 39, verse 12, saying, “Take care of him, don’t hurt him, but do whatever he tells you.” Jeremiah later joined Nebuchadnezzar and prophesied for him against the Egyptians, who had tried to help Jerusalem when it was under siege. That’s what happened with this so-called lying prophet and the book named after him.

I focused more on Isaiah and Jeremiah because they are mentioned in the books of Kings and Chronicles, unlike other prophets. I won’t spend much time on the rest of the books said to be from other prophets, but I will talk about all of these prophet guys together when I discuss their character.

Earlier, I mentioned that in the Age of Reason, the word "prophet" was just the Bible’s word for poet, and the wild ideas and comparisons made by Jewish poets have been wrongly turned into what we now call...
