The history in these four books is all mixed up. One book doesn’t even talk about things that the others mention, and they don’t agree with each other. This suggests that different people wrote them, many years after the events they describe. Each writer made up their own stories. They weren’t written by the apostles who supposedly lived closely together. In fact, these books were probably made by other people, just like some of the Old Testament books were, not by the people whose names appear on them.

The story about the angel announcing what the church calls the immaculate conception isn’t even mentioned in the books by Mark and John, and Matthew and Luke tell it differently. Matthew says the angel appeared to Joseph, while Luke says it was to Mary. But both Joseph and Mary would be the worst witnesses for this story. Other people should have told us about it, not Joseph or Mary themselves. If a girl today said, and even swore, that she got pregnant because of a ghost and an angel told her so, no one would believe her. So why should we believe the same thing about a girl from long ago, told by people we don’t know, at a time and place we don’t know? It’s weird and doesn’t make sense that something which would make a story less believable is actually used as a reason to believe this impossible story.

The story about Herod killing all children under two years old is only in Matthew’s book. None of the others mention it. If that really happened, all the writers would have known about it, and it would have been too important to leave out. Matthew says Jesus escaped because Joseph and Mary were warned by an angel to run away to Egypt. But he forgot about John the Baptist, who was also under two years old then. John stayed behind but was fine, just like Jesus who ran away. This part of the story doesn’t make sense.

None of these writers agree on the exact words of the short sign that they say was put over Jesus when he was crucified. Also, Mark says Jesus was crucified at the third hour (9 a.m.), but John says it was the sixth hour (12 noon). The inscription is shown differently in these books.
