The example in the last chapter (lii.) is even clearer. The story has been told many times, but this chapter acts like the reader doesn’t know it. It starts by saying, in verse 1, "Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah." Then in verse 4, it says, "In the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came with his whole army against Jerusalem. He camped outside and built forts," and so on.

There’s no way one person, especially Jeremiah, could have written this book. The mistakes are too big for anyone writing carefully.

If I, or anyone else, wrote in such a messy way, no one would want to read it. People would think the writer was crazy. The only way to explain this confusion is that the book is a mix of random, unverified stories put together by some careless writer who used Jeremiah’s name because many stories talk about him and the times he lived in.

I will mention two examples of Jeremiah being tricky and making false predictions, and then I will look at the rest of the Bible.

In chapter xxxviii, when Jeremiah was in prison, Zedekiah called for him. During this private meeting, Jeremiah strongly urged Zedekiah to give himself up to the enemy.

Jeremiah said in verse 17, "If you go to the king of Babylon’s officers, your life will be saved," and so on. Zedekiah was worried the meeting might be found out. He told Jeremiah in verse 25, "If the leaders of Judah hear we talked, and they come to you asking what you told me and what I said, don’t hide anything. Promise them you asked the king not to send me back to Jonathan’s house to die there." Then the leaders came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he told them exactly what the king had said.

So, this "man of God," as he’s called, could lie or twist the truth when it suited him. For sure, he didn’t go to Zedekiah to make that request, and he didn’t make it either.
