Some Christians act like Christianity was never started by force or violence, but what time are they talking about? At first, the twelve apostles couldn’t have used force because they didn’t have the power. But as soon as Christians got strong enough to use force, they did, including things like burning people at the stake. Even Muhammad couldn’t do it earlier. If the story about Peter cutting off the ear of the high priest’s servant is true, then Peter would have done worse if he could.

Also, Christianity is based on the Hebrew Bible, which was created through violence—not just to scare people, but to completely destroy others. The Jews didn’t try to make people join them; they killed those who didn’t agree. The Bible is the source of the New Testament, and both are called the word of God. Christians read both and their preachers use both to teach. So, it’s wrong to say Christianity wasn’t started by violence.

The only group that didn’t persecute others were the Quakers. The reason is probably because they are more like Deists than Christians. They don’t believe much about Jesus and call the scriptures useless. If they had said worse things about the Bible, they might have been closer to the truth.

Anyone who respects God and wants to reduce the suffering caused by people should reject the idea of revealed religion. It’s a harmful lie. What have we learned from so-called revealed religion? Nothing helpful for humans, and lots that make God look bad. What does the Bible teach? Violence, cruelty, and murder. What does the New Testament teach? Believing that God acted immorally with a woman who was engaged to be married, and calling this belief faith.

The small bits of good morals in these books aren’t really part of revealed religion. They come from basic human conscience, which helps hold society together and is found in all religions and societies. The New Testament doesn’t teach anything new about morals, and when it tries, it often sounds silly or weak. For example, the idea of not fighting back.
