Since there is nothing new to learn from dead languages, and all useful books have already been translated, these languages have become useless. The time spent teaching and learning them is wasted. When it comes to learning languages to help with gaining and sharing knowledge (because languages don’t create knowledge), only living languages can give new information. Usually, a young person will learn more in one year of a living language than in seven years of a dead one. Also, teachers often don’t know much about dead languages themselves.

The reason dead languages are hard to learn is not because they are more complicated, but because they are dead and no one knows how to say the words correctly anymore. It would be the same with any language once it dies. Even the best Greek expert today doesn’t understand Greek as well as a regular Greek farmer or milkmaid did long ago; the same goes for Latin compared to ancient Romans. In terms of how words were said and used, experts today don’t know it better than the animals the Romans worked with. So, it would be better for learning if we stopped studying dead languages and focused on real science, like we did long ago.

Some people say we keep teaching dead languages because kids can only use their memory at that age. But this is not true. Kids naturally want to learn about science and how things work. Before they even start playing, kids like to copy things people make. They build houses with cards or sticks, sail paper boats in water, or block streams to make little mills. They care a lot about these projects. But when they go to school, their curiosity dies because they have to study dead languages that don’t help them think deeply. The smart thinker is lost inside the language learner.

The real reason we still teach dead languages is not because of the excuse about memory. The true reason must be something else. When trying to figure this out, the best proof comes from looking closely at the situation and its details. In this case, it’s not hard to find those clues.
