People who say we should love our enemies are often the ones who treat others the worst, which makes sense because their advice isn’t real. Hypocrisy means doing the opposite of what you say. I don’t agree with this idea and think it’s made-up morals. But no one can say I have ever treated anyone badly or fought against anyone, like in big fights such as the American or French Revolutions. I also have never hurt someone just because they hurt me.

Still, people don’t have to respond to bad actions with good ones, or do good things just because someone else did bad things. When someone does good after bad, it’s their choice, not a rule they have to follow. It also doesn’t make sense that this idea is part of any true religion.

We copy God’s kindness by being patient with each other, just like God is patient with everyone. But this idea would mean God loves people more when they are bad than when they are good, which is silly.

If we think about life, we don’t really need a special religion to understand things. What do we really want to know? The world around us shows that there is a powerful being controlling everything. This proof is way stronger than anything written in a book, which anyone could fake and call the word of God. Also, everyone has a feeling inside them that tells them what is right and wrong.

So here we are. It’s clear there is a powerful God, even if we can’t understand exactly what God is like or how God exists. We don’t know how we got here, but we know we are here. We should also know that this power that made us can, if it wants, judge how we lived our lives. So it makes sense to believe this will happen because we know it can.

Just knowing this might happen is enough. If we knew for sure, we would be scared all the time, and our belief wouldn’t mean much. Our good actions wouldn’t be truly good.

Deism teaches us everything important we need to know without tricking us. The world is like the Bible to a deist. In nature, they see proof that God exists and is powerful. Other religious books are seen as fake. The chance that we will be judged later makes thoughtful people believe in God. It’s not what we believe or don’t believe that changes what will happen.
