Putting those things aside for a moment, it’s really unfair to think that God would make innocent people suffer just because others did something wrong. Also, it sounds weird and kind of dishonest to believe that God would become a man just to avoid punishing Adam.

Setting those ideas aside as different problems, it’s clear that what we call the Christian faith—with its strange story about how the world was made, the story of Eve, the snake, and the apple, the idea of a man who is also God, the idea of a god who can die, the story of a family of gods, and the confusing idea that three can be one and one can be three—doesn’t really match with the natural way God gave humans to think and reason. It also doesn’t fit with what we learn about God’s power and wisdom when we study science and how the universe works.

So, the people who started and supported the Christian faith probably knew that as humans learned more about science and the universe, their faith’s stories would be questioned. Because of this, they tried to stop people from learning things that might challenge their beliefs. They did this by focusing only on studying old, dead languages instead of science.

Not only did they keep science out of Christian schools, but they also punished people who studied it. It’s only in the last couple hundred years that science started to be accepted again. For example, in 1610, a guy named Galileo from Florence made telescopes and used them to study the stars and planets, helping us understand the universe better. Instead of being praised, he was forced to give up his discoveries or face punishment for heresy.

Before that, a man named Virgilius was sentenced to be burned for saying the Earth was round and could be lived on anywhere there was land. Now, of course, everyone knows this is true. If believing wrong things that aren’t harmful didn’t cause problems, it wouldn’t be our job to fight against them. There was no moral harm in thinking the Earth was flat, just like there was no special goodness in thinking it was round.
