The idea of not hurting others is explained better in Proverbs, which has wisdom from both Gentiles and Jews, than it is in the Testament. It says, "If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink." But when the Testament says, "If someone hits you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also," it makes being patient seem weak and makes people look like doormats.

Loving your enemies is another idea that sounds fake and doesn’t really make sense. People should not get revenge when they are hurt, and this is also good for politics because if everyone kept getting back at each other, there would be no peace. But loving someone more because they hurt you would actually encourage bad behavior.

Also, the word “enemies” is too broad to use in rules about right and wrong, which should be clear and simple, like a saying. Sometimes people are enemies because of mistakes or misunderstandings, like in religion or politics, and that’s different from someone who hates you and wants to harm you. It’s better for us to think the best about others to keep peace inside ourselves. But even if someone is wrong, that doesn’t mean we have to love them, and saying we can love without a reason is just not possible.

Morality is hurt when we say people must do things that are impossible or that would cause more harm. The rule “Treat others how you want to be treated” doesn’t include this strange idea of loving enemies, because no one expects to be loved when they do wrong or are mean.

According to what is called Christ’s sermon on the mount in the book of Matthew, this idea of not fighting back wasn’t part of Jewish teaching. Since it’s found in Proverbs, it probably came from Gentiles, from whom Christ might have learned it. The people called heathens by Jews and Christians actually had better and clearer ideas about justice and right and wrong than what’s found in the Old or New Testaments.

The answer of Solon, who lived about 500 years before Christ, to the question “What is the best kind of government?” is still one of the best. He said it’s one where even the smallest harm to the weakest person is seen as an insult to the whole system.
