If we look deeper into those books, it's even clearer that Samuel did not write them. They talk about events that happened many years after Samuel died. Samuel died before Saul. For example, in 1 Samuel 28, Saul and the witch of Endor call up Samuel's spirit after he was already dead. But the stories in those books continue through the rest of Saul's life and even the later part of David's life, who came after Saul.

The story about Samuel’s death and burial (which he couldn’t have written himself) is in 1 Samuel 25. This part is dated to about 1060 B.C. But the first book’s history goes all the way to 1056 B.C., the year Saul died—four years after Samuel died.

The second book of Samuel starts with things that happened four years after Samuel’s death. It begins with David becoming king after Saul and continues through David’s 43-year reign. So, the books clearly show they were not written by Samuel.

I have now looked at all the early books in the Bible that are named after people like Moses, Joshua, and Samuel. The Christian church says these people wrote those books, but I have shown that this is not true. 

So now, to all the priests and religious leaders who have spoken against the Age of Reason, what do you have to say? With all this clear evidence, how can you still stand in your churches and tell people these books were written by inspired authors and are the word of God? It’s obvious that the people you say wrote them did not write them—and you don’t even know who did.

What excuse do you have for continuing this dishonest trick? What can you say against the honest and moral religion of deism to support your false system full of lies, idolatry, and fake revelations?

If the cruel and violent orders in the Bible, and the many horrible killings of men, women, and children because of those orders, had been blamed on someone you loved and respected, you would be proud to prove that charge wrong and defend their good name. But because you are trapped in superstitions or don’t care…
