Some people make crazy guesses about this story. On the surface, it’s just like the stories about Jupiter and Leda or Jupiter and Europa, or any of Jupiter’s love adventures. This shows, like I said before in The Age of Reason, that Christian beliefs are actually based on old pagan myths.

The parts of the New Testament that talk about Jesus only cover a short time—less than two years—and all happen in the same country, almost in the same place. Because of this, you won’t find as many mistakes about time, place, or events here as you do in the Old Testament. The New Testament compared to the Old is like a short play with only one act, so there isn’t much chance for big mistakes. But still, there are some obvious contradictions that prove the story of Jesus isn’t true, even without looking at the fake prophecies.

I want to make two points that no one can argue with: first, just because all parts of a story agree doesn’t mean the story is true—it could all be made up. Second, if the parts don’t agree, the story can’t be true.

So, if the story parts agree, that doesn’t prove it’s true. But if they don’t agree, that definitely proves it’s false.

The story of Jesus is told in four books: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Matthew starts with a family tree of Jesus, and Luke also gives one in his third chapter. If these two family trees matched, it still wouldn’t prove they’re real because they could be made up. But since they don’t match at all, that proves they’re definitely false. If Matthew is telling the truth, then Luke is lying. If Luke is telling the truth, then Matthew is lying. Since there’s no reason to believe one more than the other, there’s no reason to believe either. And if you can’t trust the very first thing they say, you can’t trust anything else they say later. Truth is always consistent. And even if we believe in inspiration or revelation, it’s impossible for them to contradict each other. So either the apostles were fakes, or the books said to be written by them were actually written by other people and falsely named after them, just like in the Old Testament.

Matthew’s book gives a family tree from King David, through Joseph (Mary’s husband), all the way to Jesus.
