This is the situation we are in, and it’s right that we should be free to make our own choices. Only a fool would live like there is no God, not a wise or careful person.

But believing in God gets weaker because it’s mixed with strange stories from the Christian faith and wild adventures in the Bible. The confusing and sometimes gross parts of the Testament make people’s minds foggy. When people see all these things mixed up, they can’t tell what’s real and what’s made up. Since they can’t believe everything, they feel like not believing anything. But believing in God is different from all these other things and shouldn’t be mixed up with them. The idea of a Trinity, or three Gods in one, makes belief in one God weaker. When you have many beliefs, your belief gets divided and weaker.

Religion then becomes about rules instead of real truth, and about ideas instead of values. Morality, or knowing right from wrong, is pushed aside to make room for something called faith, which started from a bad idea. Instead of teaching about God, people preach about a man. They make an execution seem like something to be thankful for. The preachers cover themselves with blood like criminals and act proud of it. They give boring talks about why the execution was good, then thank Jesus for being killed and blame the Jews for it.

When someone hears all this mixed-up nonsense, they get confused and mix up the God who created everything with the made-up Christian God, and end up living like there is no God.

Out of all the religions ever made, none is worse for God, worse for people, more against reason, or more full of contradictions than Christianity. It’s too silly to believe, too hard to explain, and too confusing to live by. It makes people cold inside or turns them into atheists or extreme believers. It’s a tool for rulers to control people and for priests to get rich, but it doesn’t help most people in life or after death.

The only real religion that wasn’t made up and shows signs of being truly divine is simple deism. It was probably the first religion people believed in and might be the last. But simple deism doesn’t work for tyrant governments.

They can’t use religion to control people unless they mix it with made-up ideas and make themselves part of it. It also doesn’t help priests get rich, so they join in and change it.
