It would decide itself like I said before: Is it more likely that a man swallowed a whale, or that he told a lie?

But imagine Jonah really did swallow the whale and went inside it all the way to Nineveh. If he then made the whale come up in front of everyone, showing it was a full-sized whale, would people believe him? Or would they think he was the devil, not a prophet? Or if the whale carried Jonah to Nineveh and spit him out in front of everyone, wouldn’t they think the whale was the devil and Jonah one of its helpers?

One of the weirdest miracles in the New Testament is the devil flying away with Jesus, taking him to the top of a high mountain and the highest part of the temple, showing him all the kingdoms of the world and promising them to him. Why didn’t he show Jesus America? Or does the devil only care about kingdoms?

I respect Jesus too much to think he made up this huge miracle story. It’s hard to say why anyone would make it up unless they wanted to trick people who love miracles, like how some people collect old coins or relics. Maybe it was meant to make miracles seem silly by being too unbelievable, like how Don Quixote made knights look ridiculous. Or maybe it was meant to confuse people about whether miracles come from God or the devil. But you need a lot of faith in the devil to believe this miracle.

No matter how you look at miracles, they don’t seem real and aren’t really needed. Even if they were true, they wouldn’t help much because it’s harder to believe a miracle than to believe in a clear moral lesson without miracles.

Moral lessons make sense to everyone. Miracles only happen once and are seen by a few people. After that, you have to trust people’s stories about them. So instead of believing miracles prove a religion is true, we should think they show the story might be fake. Truth doesn’t need help to be believed, but stories that are made up always try to get extra help. That’s what I think about Mystery and Miracle.

While Mystery and Miracle cover the past and present, Prophecy deals with the future and completes the idea of faith.
