The first Apostle of those which were not constituted by Christ in the time he was upon the earth was Matthias, chosen in this manner: there were assembled together in Jerusalem about one hundred and twenty Christians.(Acts, 1. 15) These appointed two, Joseph the Just and Matthias,(Ibid., 1. 23) and caused lots to be drawn; “and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the apostles.”(Ibid., 1. 26) So that here we see the ordination of this Apostle was the act of the congregation, and not of St. Peter, nor of the eleven, otherwise than as members of the assembly.
 
 After him there was never any other Apostle ordained, but Paul and Barnabas, which was done, as we read, in this manner: “There were in the church that was at Antioch, certain prophets and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen; which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul.
 
 As they ministered unto the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them.
 
 And when they had fasted, and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.”(Acts, 13. 1, 2, 3) By which it is manifest that though they were called by the Holy Ghost, their calling was declared unto them, and their mission authorized by the particular church of Antioch. And that this their calling was to the apostleship is apparent by that, that they are both called Apostles:(Acts, 14. 14) and that it was by virtue of this act of the church of Antioch that they were Apostles, St. Paul declareth plainly in that he useth the word, which the Holy Ghost used at his calling, for he styleth himself, “An apostle separated unto the gospel of God,”(Romans, 1. 1) alluding to the words of the Holy Ghost, “Separate me Barnabas and Saul,” etc. But seeing the work of an Apostle was to be a witness of the resurrection of Christ, a man may here ask how St. Paul, that conversed not with our Saviour before his Passion, could know he was risen. To which is easily answered that our Saviour himself appeared to him in the way to Damascus, from heaven, after his ascension; “and chose him for a vessel to bear his name before the Gentiles, and kings, and children of Israel”; and consequently, having seen the Lord after his Passion, was a competent witness of his resurrection: and as for Barnabas, he was a disciple before the Passion. It is therefore evident that Paul and Barnabas were Apostles, and yet chosen and authorized, not by the first 330/Thomas Hobbes Apostles alone, but by the Church of Antioch; as Matthias was chosen and authorized by the Church of Jerusalem.
 
