Our Saviour Christ therefore to redeem us did not in that sense satisfy for the sins of men, as that his death, of its own virtue, could make it unjust in God to punish sinners with eternal death; but did make that sacrifice and oblation of Himself, at His first coming, which God was pleased to require for the salvation at His second coming, of such as in the meantime should repent and believe in Him. And though this act of our redemption be not always in Scripture called a sacrifice and oblation, but sometimes a price; yet by price we are not to understand anything by the value whereof He could claim to a pardon for us from his offended Father; but that price which God the Father was pleased in mercy to demand.
 
 XXXIX: Of the Signification in Scripture of the Word Church The word Church (ecclesia) signifieth in the books of Holy Scripture diverse things. Sometimes, though not often, it is taken for God’s house, that is to say, for a temple wherein Christians assemble to perform holy duties publicly; as, “Let your women keep silence in the churches”:(I Corinthians, 14. 34) but this is metaphorically put for the congregation there assembled, and hath been since used for the edifice itself to distinguish between the temples of Christians and idolaters. The Temple of Jerusalem was God’s house, and the house of prayer; and so is any edifice dedicated by Christians to the worship of Christ, Christ’s house: and therefore the Greek Fathers call it Kuriac(cid:190), the Lord’s house; and thence in our language it came to be called kirk, and church.
 
 Church, when not taken for a house, signifieth the same that Ecclesia signified in the Grecian Commonwealths; that is to say, a congregation, or an assembly of citizens, called forth to hear the magistrate speak unto them; and which in the Commonwealth of Rome was called concio, as he that spake was called ecclesiastes, and concionator. And when they were called forth by lawful authority, it was ecclesia legitima, a lawful Church, (cid:153)nnomoj Ekkles(cid:133)a. (Acts, 19. 39) But when they were excited by tumultuous and seditious clamour, then it was a confused Church, Ekkles(cid:133)a sugkechum(cid:154)nh.
 
 It is taken also sometimes for the men that have right to be of the congregation, though not actually assembled; that is to say, for the whole multitude of Christian men, how far soever they be dispersed: as where it is said that “Saul made havoc of the church”:(Acts, 8. 3) and in this Leviathan/289 sense is Christ said to be Head of the Church.
 
