For the presbytery hath challenged the power to excommunicate their own kings, and to be the supreme moderators in religion, in the places where they have that form of Church government, no less than the Pope challengeth it universally.
 
 The words are, “Verily I say unto you, that there be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power.”(Mark, 9. 1) Which words, if taken grammatically, make it certain that either some of those men that stood by Christ at that time are yet alive, or else that the kingdom of God must be now in this present world. And then there is another place more difficult: for when the Apostles after our Saviour’s resurrection, and immediately before his ascension, asked our Saviour, saying, “Wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?” he answered them, “It is not for you to know the times and the seasons, which the Father hath put in His own power; but ye shall receive power by the coming of the Holy Ghost upon you, and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth”:(Acts, 1. 6) which is as much as to say, My kingdom is not yet come, nor shall you foreknow when it shall come; for it shall come as a thief in the night; but I will send you the Holy Ghost, and by him you shall have power to bear witness to all the world, by your preaching of my resurrection, and the works I have done, and the doctrine I have taught, that they may believe in me, and expect eternal life, at my coming again.
 
 How does this agree with the coming of Christ’s kingdom at the resurrection? And that which St. Paul says, “That they turned from idols, to serve the living and true God, and to wait for His Son from heaven”;(I Thessalonians, 1. 9, 10) where “to wait for His Son from heaven” is to wait for his coming to be king in power; which were not necessary if his kingdom had been then present. Again, if the kingdom of God began, as Beza on that place(Maek 9. 1) would have it, at the resurrection; what reason is there for Christians ever since the resurrection to say in their prayers, “Let thy kingdom come”? It is therefore manifest that the words of St. Mark are not so to be interpreted. There be some of them that stand here, saith our Saviour, that shall not taste of death till they have seen the kingdom of God come in power. If then this kingdom were to come at the resurrection of Christ, why is it said, some of them, rather than all? For they all lived till after Christ was risen.
 
 But they that require an exact interpretation of this text, let them interpret first the like words of our Saviour to St. Peter concerning St.
 
