But the meaning of those words is best understood by the like place, where when the earth was covered with waters, as in the beginning, God intending to abate them, and again to discover the dry land, useth the like words, “I will bring my Spirit upon the earth, and the waters shall be diminished”:(Ibid., 8. 1) in which place by Spirit is understood a wind (that is an air or spirit moved), which might be called, as in the former place, the Spirit of God, because it was God’s work.
 
 Pharaoh calleth the wisdom of Joseph the Spirit of God. For Joseph having advised him to look out a wise and discreet man, and to set him over the land of Egypt, he saith thus, “Can we find such a man as this is, in whom is the Spirit of God?”(Genesis, 41. 38) And Exodus, 28. 3, “Thou shalt speak,” saith God, “to all that are wise hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, to make Aaron garments, to consecrate him.” Where extraordinary understanding, though but in making garments, as being the gift of God, is called the Spirit of God. The same is found again, Exod. 31. 3–6, and 35. 31 And Isaiah, 11. 2, 3, where the prophet, speaking of the Messiah, saith, “The Spirit of the Lord shall abide upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel, and fortitude, and the spirit of the fear of the Lord.” Where manifestly is meant, not so many ghosts, but so many eminent graces that God would give him.
 
 In the Book of Judges, an extraordinary zeal and courage in the defence of God’s people is called the Spirit of God; as when it excited Othniel, Gideon, Jephtha, and Samson to deliver them from servitude, Judges, 3. 10, 6. 34, 11. 29, 13. 25, 14. 6, 19. And of Saul, upon the news of the insolence of the Ammonites towards the men of Jabesh Gilead, it is said that “The Spirit of God came upon Saul, and his anger” (or, as it is in the Latin, his fury) “was kindled greatly.”(I Samuel, 11. 6 ) Where it is not probable was meant a ghost, but an extraordinary zeal to punish the cruelty of the Ammonites. In like manner by the Spirit of God that came upon Saul, when he was amongst the prophets that praised God in songs and music,(Ibid., 19. 20) is to be understood, not a ghost, but an unexpected and sudden zeal to join with them in their devotion.
 
 The false prophet Zedekiah saith to Micaiah, “Which way went the 244/Thomas Hobbes Spirit of the Lord from me to speak to thee?
 
