23) where he speaketh expressly of His reign in Zion and Jerusalem; that is, on earth. And, “And the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion”:(Micah, 4. 7) this Mount Zion is in Jerusalem upon the earth. And, “As I live, saith the Lord God, surely with a mighty hand, and a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, I will rule over you”;(Ezekiel, 20. 33) and, “I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant”;(Ibid., 20. 37) that is, I will reign over you, and make you to stand to that covenant which you made with me by Moses, and broke in your rebellion against me in the days of Samuel, and in your election of another king.
 
 And in the New the New Testament the angel Gabriel saith of our Saviour, “He shall be great, and be called the Son of the most High, and the Lord shall give him the throne of his father David; and he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.”(Luke, 1. 32, 33) This is also a kingdom upon earth, for the claim whereof, as an enemy to Caesar, he was put to death; the title of his cross was Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews; he was crowned in scorn with a crown of thorns; and for the proclaiming of him, it is said of the Disciples “That they did all of them contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there was another King, one Jesus.”(Acts, 17. 7) The kingdom therefore of God is a real, not a metaphorical kingdom; and so taken, not only in the Old Testament, but the New. When we say, “For thine is the kingdom, the power, and glory,” it is to be understood of God’s kingdom, by force of our covenant, not by the right of God’s power; for such a kingdom God always hath; so that it were superfluous to say in our prayer, “Thy kingdom come,” unless it be meant of the restoration of that kingdom of God by Christ which by revolt of the Israelites had been interrupted in the election of Saul. Nor had it been proper to say, “The kingdom of heaven is at hand”; or to pray, “Thy kingdom come,” if it had still continued.
 
 There be so many other places that confirm this interpretation that it were a wonder there is no greater notice taken of it, but that it gives too much light to Christian kings to see their right of ecclesiastical government. This they have observed, that instead of a sacerdotal kingdom, translate, a kingdom of priests: for they may as well translate a royal priesthood, as it is in St. Peter, into a priesthood of kings. And whereas, for a peculiar people, they put a precious jewel, or treasure, a man might as well call the special regiment or company of a general the general’s precious jewel, or his treasure.
 
