But a person (as I have shown before, Chapter thirteen) is he that is represented, as of as he is represented; and therefore God, who has been represented (that is, personated) thrice, may properly enough be said to be three persons; though neither the word Person nor Trinity be ascribed to him in the Bible. St. John indeed saith, “There be three that bear witness in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit; and these three are one”:(Luke, 5. 11) but this disagreeth not, but accordeth fitly with three persons in the proper signification of persons; which is that which is represented by another. For so God the Father, as represented by Moses, is one person; and as represented by His Son, another person; and as represented by the Apostles, and by the doctors that taught by authority from them derived, is a third person; and yet every person here is the person of one and the same God. But a man may here ask what it was whereof these three bore witness. St.
 
 John therefore tells us that they bear witness that “God hath given us eternal life in His Son.” Again, if it should be asked wherein that testimony appeareth, the answer is easy; for He hath testified the same by the miracles He wrought, first by Moses; secondly, by His Son himself; and lastly by His Apostles that had received the Holy Spirit; all which in their times represented the person of God, and either prophesied or preached Jesus Christ. And as for the Apostles, it was the character of the apostleship, in the twelve first and great Apostles, to bear witness of his resurrection, as appeareth expressly where St. Peter, when a new Apostle was to be chosen in the place of Judas Iscariot, useth these words, “Of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out amongst us, beginning at the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection”:(Acts, 1. 21, 22) which words interpret the “bearing of witness” mentioned by St. John.
 
 There is in the same place mentioned another Trinity of witnesses in earth. For he saith, “there are three that bear witness in earth; the Spirit, and the water, and the blood; and these three agree in one”:(Ibid., 1. 8) that is to say, the graces of God’s Spirit, and the two sacraments, baptism and the Lord’s Supper, which all agree in one testimony to assure the consciences of believers of eternal life; of which testimony he saith, Leviathan/307 “He that believeth on the Son of Man hath the witness in himself.
 
