Neither was this apparition a fancy figured, but a voice. By which it is manifest that angel signifieth there nothing but God Himself, that caused Hagar supernaturally to apprehend a voice from heaven; or rather, nothing else but a voice supernatural, testifying God’s special presence there. Why therefore may not the angels that appeared to Lot, and are called men;(Ibid., 19. 10) and to whom, though they were two, Lot speaketh as but to one,(Ibid., 19. 18) and that one as God (for the words are, “Lot said unto them, Oh not so my Lord”), be understood of images of men, supernaturally formed in the fancy; as well as before by angel was understood a fancied voice? When the angel called to Abraham out of heaven, to stay his hand from slaying Isaac,(Genesis, 22. 11) there was no apparition, but a voice; which nevertheless was called properly enough a messenger or angel of God, because it declared God’s will supernaturally, and saves the labour of supposing any permanent ghosts. The angels which Jacob saw on the ladder of heaven (Ibid., 28. 12) were a vision of his sleep; therefore only fancy and a dream; yet being supernatural, and signs of God’s special presence, those apparitions are not improperly called angels. The same is to be understood where Jacob saith thus, “The angel of the Lord appeared to me in my sleep.”(Ibid., 31. 11) For an apparition made to a man in his sleep is that which all men call a dream, whether such dream be natural or supernatural: and that which there Jacob calleth an angel was God Himself; for the same angel saith, “I am the God of Bethel.”(Ibid., 31. 13) Also the angel that went before the army of Israel to the Red Sea, and then came behind it, is the Lord Himself;(Exodus, 14. 19) and He appeared not in the form of a beautiful man, but in form, by day, of a “pillar of cloud,” and, by night, in form of a “pillar of fire”;(Ibid., 13.
 
 21) and yet this pillar was all the apparition and angel promised to Moses for the army’s guide: for this cloudy pillar is said to have descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and to have talked with Moses.(Ibid., 33. 2).
 
 There you see motion and speech, which are commonly attributed to angels, attributed to a cloud, because the cloud served as a sign of God’s presence; and was no less an angel than if it had had the form of a man or child of never so great beauty; or wings, as usually they are painted, for the false instruction of common people. For it is not the shape, but their use, that makes them angels. But their use is to be significations of God’s presence in supernatural operations; as when 248/Thomas Hobbes Moses had desired God to go along with the camp, as He had done always before the making of the golden calf, God did not answer, “I will go,” nor “I will send an angel in my stead”; but thus, “My presence shall go with thee.
 
