”(I Kings, 22. 24) Which cannot be understood of a ghost; for Micaiah declared before the kings of Israel and Judah the event of the battle as from a vision and not as from a spirit speaking in him.
 
 In the same manner it appeareth, in the books of the Prophets, that though they spake by the Spirit of God, that is to say, by a special grace of prediction; yet their knowledge of the future was not by a ghost within them, but by some supernatural dream or vision.
 
 It is said, “God made man of the dust of the earth, and breathed into his nostrils (spiraculum vitae) the breath of life, and man was made a living soul.”(Genesis, 2. 7) There the breath of life inspired by God signifies no more but that God gave him life; and “as long as the spirit of God is in my nostrils”(Job, 27. 3) is no more than to say, “as long as I live.” So in Ezekiel, 1. 20, “the spirit of life was in the wheels,” is equivalent to, “the wheels were alive.” And “the spirit entered into me, and me, and set me on my feet,”(Ezekiel, 2. 30) that is, “I recovered my vital strength”; not that any ghost or incorporeal substance entered into and possessed his body.
 
 In the eleventh chapter of Numbers, verse 17, “I will take,” saith God, “of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them, and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee”; that is, upon the seventy elders: whereupon two of the seventy are said to prophesy in the camp; of whom some complained, and Joshua desired Moses to forbid them, which Moses would not do. Whereby it appears that Joshua knew not they had received authority so to do, and prophesied according to the mind of Moses, that is to say, by a spirit or authority subordinate to his own.
 
 In the like sense we read that “Joshua was full of the spirit of wisdom, because Moses had laid his hands upon him”:(Deuteronomy, 34.
 
 9) that is, because he was ordained by Moses to prosecute the work he had himself begun (namely, the bringing of God’s people into the promised land) but, prevented by death, could not finish.
 
 In the like sense it is said, “If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his”:(Romans, 8. 9) not meaning thereby the ghost of Christ, but a submission to his doctrine. As also, “Hereby you shall know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God”;(I John, 4. 2) by which is meant the spirit of unfeigned Christianity, submission to that main article of Christian faith, that Jesus is the Christ; which cannot be interpreted of a ghost.
 
