For by salvation is set forth unto us a glorious reign of our king by conquest; not a safety by escape: and therefore there where we look for salvation, we must look also for triumph; and before triumph, for victory; and before victory, for battle; which cannot well be supposed shall be in heaven. But how good soever this reason may be, I will not trust to it without very evident places of Scripture. The state of salvation is described at large, Isaiah, 33. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24: “Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities; thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken.
 
 “But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.
 
 “For the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us.
 
 “Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast; they could not spread the sail: then is the a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey.
 
 “And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick; the people that shall dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.” In which words we have the place from whence salvation is to proceed, “Jerusalem, a quiet habitation”; the eternity of it, “a tabernacle that shall not be taken down,” etc.; the Saviour of it, “the Lord, their judge, their lawgiver, their king, he will save us”; the salvation, “the Lord shall be to them as a broad moat of swift waters,” etc.; the condition of their enemies, “their tacklings are loose, their masts weak, the lame shall take the spoil of them”; the condition of the saved, “The inhabitant shall not say, I am sick”; and lastly, all this is comprehended in forgiveness of sin, “the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.” By which it is evident that salvation shall be on earth, then, when God shall reign, at the coming again of Christ, in Jerusalem; and from Jerusalem shall proceed the salvation of the Gentiles that shall be received into God’s kingdom: as is also more expressly declared by the same prophet, “And they” (that is, the Gentiles who had any Jew in bondage) “shall bring all your brethren for an offering to the Lord, out of all nations, upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, saith the 286/Thomas Hobbes Lord, as the children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel into the house of the Lord.
 
