For as touching the Commonwealth which then was amongst the Jews, both they that bore rule amongst them and they that were governed did all expect the Messiah and kingdom of God; which they could not have done if their laws had forbidden him, when he came, to manifest and declare himself. Seeing therefore he did nothing, but by preaching and miracles go about to prove himself to be that Messiah, he did therein nothing against their laws. The kingdom he claimed was to be in another world: he taught all men to obey in the meantime them that sat in Moses’ seat: he allowed them to give Caesar his tribute, and refused to take upon himself to be a judge. How then could his words or actions be seditious, or tend to the overthrow of their then civil government? But God having determined his sacrifice for the reduction of His elect to their former covenanted obedience, for the means, whereby He would bring the same to effect, made use of their malice and ingratitude. Nor was it contrary to the laws of Caesar. For though Pilate himself, to gratify the Jews, delivered him to be crucified; yet before he did so, he pronounced openly that he found no fault in him; and put for title of his condemnation, not as the Jews required, “that he pretended to be king,” but simply, “that he was King of the Jews”; and notwithstanding their clamour, refused to alter it, saying, “What I have written, I have written.” As for the third part of his office, which was to be king, I have already shown that his kingdom was not to begin till the resurrection.
 
 But then he shall be king, not only as God, in which sense he is king already, and ever shall be, of all the earth, in virtue of his omnipotence; but also peculiarly of his own elect, by virtue of the pact they make with him in their baptism. And therefore it is that our Saviour saith that his Apostles should sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel, “When the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory”:(Loc.
 
 cit.) whereby he signified that he should reign then in his human nature; and “The Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father, with his angels, and then he shall reward every man according to his works.”(Ibid., 16. 27) The same we may read, Mark, 13. 26, and 14. 62, and more expressly for the time, Luke, 22. 29, 30, “I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed to me, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.” By which it is manifest that the kingdom of Christ appointed to him by his Father is not to be before the Son of Man shall come in glory, Leviathan/303 and make his Apostles judges of the twelve tribes of Israel.
 
