”(Ibid., 8. 19, 20) Here is confirmed the right that sovereigns have, both to the militia and to all judicature; in which is contained as absolute power as one man can possibly transfer to another. Again, the prayer of King Solomon to God was this: “Give to thy servant understanding, to judge thy people, and to discern between good and evil.”(I Kings, 3. 9) It belonged therefore to the sovereign to be judge, and to prescribe the rules of discerning good and evil: which rules are laws; and therefore in him is the legislative power. Saul sought the life of David; yet when it was in his power to slay Saul, and his servants would have done it, David forbade them, saying, “God forbid I should do such an act against my Lord, the anointed of God.”(I Samuel, 24. 6) For obedience of servants St. Paul saith, “Servants obey your masters in all things”;(Colossians, 3. 22) and, “Children obey your parents in all things.”(Ibid., 3. 20) There is simple obedience in those that are subject to paternal or despotical dominion.
 
 Again, “The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses’ chair, and therefore all that they shall bid you observe, that observe and do.”(Matthew, 23. 2, 3) There again is simple obedience. And St. Paul, “Warn them that they subject themselves to princes, and to those that are in authority, and obey them.”(Titus, 3. 1) This obedience is also simple. Lastly, our Saviour Himself acknowledges that men ought to pay such taxes as are by kings imposed, where He says, “Give to Caesar that which is Caesar’s”; and paid such taxes Himself. And that the king’s word is sufficient to take anything from any subject, when there is need; and that the king is judge of that need: for He Himself, as king of the Jews, commanded his Disciples to take the ass and ass’s colt to carry him into Jerusalem, saying, “Go into the village over against you, and you shall find a she ass tied, and her colt with her; untie them, and bring them to me. And if any man ask you, what you mean by it, say the Lord hath need of them: and they will let them go.”(Matthew, 21. 2, 3 ) They will not ask whether his necessity be a sufficient title; nor whether he be judge of that necessity; but acquiesce in the will of the Lord.
 
 To these places may be added also that of Genesis, “You shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.”(Genesis, 3. 5) And, “Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee thou shouldest not eat?”(Ibid., 3. 11) For the cognizance or judicature of good and evil, being forbidden by the name of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, as a trial of Adam’s obedience, the devil to inflame the 128/Thomas Hobbes ambition of the woman, to whom that fruit already seemed beautiful, told her that by tasting it they should be as gods, knowing good and evil.
 
