Leviathan/309 Paul saith, “Children, obey your parents in all things; for this is well pleasing to the Lord.”(Colossians, 3. 20) And, “Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service, as menpleasers, but in singleness of heart, as fearing the Lord”:(Ibid., 3. 22) this is spoken to them whose masters were infidels; and yet they are bidden to obey them in all things. And again, concerning obedience to princes, exhorting “to be subject to the higher powers,” he saith, “that all power is ordained of God”; and “that we ought to subject to them not only for” fear of incurring their “wrath, but also for conscience sake.”(Romans, 13. 1-6) And St. Peter, “Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, for the Lord’s sake, whether it be to the king, as supreme, or unto governors, as to them that be sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well; for so is the will of God.”(I Peter, 2. 13, 14, 15) And again St. Paul, “Put men in mind to be subject to principalities, and powers, and to obey magistrates.”(Titus, 3. 1) These princes and powers whereof St. Peter and St. Paul here speak were all infidels: much more therefore we are to obey those Christians whom God hath ordained to have sovereign power over us. How then can we be obliged to obey any minister of Christ if he should command us to do anything contrary to the command of the king or other sovereign representant of the Commonwealth whereof we are members, and by whom we look to be protected? It is therefore manifest that Christ hath not left to his ministers in this world, unless they be also endued with civil authority, any authority to command other men.
 
 But what, may some object, if a king, or a senate, or other sovereign person forbid us to believe in Christ? To this I answer that such forbidding is of no effect; because belief and unbelief never follow men’s commands. Faith is a gift of God which man can neither give nor take away by promise of rewards or menaces of torture. And, if it be further asked, what if we be commanded by our lawful prince to say with our tongue we believe not; must we obey such command? Profession with the tongue is but an external thing, and no more than any other gesture whereby we signify our obedience; and wherein a Christian, holding firmly in his heart the faith of Christ, hath the same liberty which the prophet Elisha allowed to Naaman the Syrian. Naaman was converted in his heart to the God of Israel, for he saith, “Thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I 310/Thomas Hobbes bow myself in the house of Rimmon; when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy servant in this thing.
 
