So natural it is to design any individual thing rather by the hand, to assure the eyes, than by words to inform the ear, in matters of God’s public service.
 
 This ceremony was not therefore new in our Saviour’s time. For Jairus, whose daughter was sick, besought our Saviour not to heal her, but “to lay his hands upon her, that she might be healed.”(Mark, 5. 23) And “they brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray.”(Matthew, 19. 13) According to this ancient rite, the Apostles and presbyters and the presbytery itself laid hands on them whom they ordained pastors, and withal prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Ghost; and that not only once, but sometimes oftener, when a new occasion was presented: but the end was still the same, namely a punctual and religious designation of the person ordained either to the pastoral charge in general or to a particular mission. So “The Apostles prayed, and laid their hands”(Acts, 6. 6) on the seven deacons; which was done, not to give them the Holy Ghost (for they were full of the Holy Ghost before they were chosen, as appeareth immediately before(Ibid., 6. 3)), but to design them to that office. And after Philip the Deacon had converted certain persons in Samaria, Peter and John went down “and laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.”(Ibid., 8. 17) And not only an Apostle, but a presbyter had this power: for St. Paul adviseth Timothy, “Lay hands suddenly on no man”; (I Timothy, 5. 22) that is, design no man rashly to the office of a pastor. The whole presbytery laid their hands on Timothy, as we read, I Timothy, 4. 14, but this is to be understood as that some did it by the appointment of the presbytery, and most likely their proestos, or prolocutor, which it may be was St. Paul himself. For in his second Epistle to Timothy, verse 6, he saith to him, “Stir up the gift of God which is in thee, by the laying on of my hands”: where note, by the way, that by the Holy Ghost is not meant the third person in the Trinity, but the gifts necessary to the pastoral office. We read also that St. Paul had imposition of hands twice; once from Ananias at Damascus at the time of his baptism;(Acts, 9. 17, 18) and again at Antioch, when he was first sent out to preach.(Ibid., 13. 3) The use then of this ceremony considered in the ordination of pastors was to design the person to whom they gave such power. But if there had been then any Christian that had had the power of teaching before, the baptizing 342/Thomas Hobbes of him, that is, the making him a Christian, had given him no new power, but had only caused him to preach true doctrine, that is, to use his power aright; and therefore the imposition of hands had been unnecessary; baptism itself had been sufficient.
 
