388/Thomas Hobbes John, “If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?”(John, 21.
 
 22) upon which was grounded a report that he should not die. Nevertheless the truth of that report was neither confirmed, as well grounded; nor refuted, as ill grounded on those words; but left as a saying not understood. The same difficulty is also in the place of St. Mark. And if it be lawful to conjecture at their meaning, by that which immediately follows, both here and in St. Luke, where the same is again repeated, it is not improbable to say they have relation to the Transfiguration, which is described in the verses immediately following, where it is said that “After six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John” (not all, but some of his Disciples), “and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves, and was transfigured before them. And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no fuller on earth can white them. And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus,” etc. So that they saw Christ in glory and majesty, as he is to come; insomuch as “they were sore afraid.” And thus the promise of our Saviour was accomplished by way of vision.
 
 For it was a vision, as may probably be inferred out of St. Luke, that reciteth the same story, and saith that Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep:(Luke, 9. 28) but most certainly out of Matthew 17. 9 where the same is again related; for our Saviour charged them, saying, “Tell no man the vision until the Son of Man be risen from the dead.” Howsoever it be, yet there can from thence be taken no argument to prove that the kingdom of God taketh beginning till the day of judgement.
 
 As for some other texts to prove the Pope’s power over civil sovereigns (besides those of Bellarmine), as that the two swords that Christ and his Apostles had amongst them were the spiritual and the temporal sword, which they say St. Peter had given him by Christ; and that of the two luminaries, the greater signifies the Pope, and the lesser the king; one might as well infer out of the first verse of the Bible that by heaven is meant the Pope, and by earth the king: which is not arguing from Scripture, but a wanton insulting over princes that came in fashion after the time the popes were grown so secure of their greatness as to contemn all Christian kings; and treading on the necks of emperors, to mock both them and the Scripture, in the words of the ninety-first Psalm, “Thou shalt tread upon the lion and the adder; the young lion and the dragon thou shalt trample under thy feet.” As for the rites of consecration, though they depend for the most Leviathan/389 part upon the discretion and judgement of the governors of the Church, and not upon the Scriptures; yet those governors are obliged to such direction as the nature of the action itself requireth; as that the ceremonies, words, gestures be both decent and significant, or at least conformable to the action.
 
