When plans are well made and show clear vision, you can see it in battles like the one at Ravenna. The Spanish brought a leader who earned respect and admiration. Italy has plenty of strong, healthy men who just need a good leader to guide them. Italians are better and more skilled in fights or small battles than foreigners. But when it comes to armies, they don’t do well because they are badly led. The capable people are ignored, and the useless ones think they are good leaders. So far, no one has had the skill and luck to win big enough to make others step aside.

That’s why, in the last twenty years, whenever an army was made only of Italians, it failed badly. We can see this in battles like Taro, Alessandria, Capua, Genova, Vaila`, Bologna, and Mestre. It would be a huge mistake to miss the chance to save Italy now. People in towns suffering from foreign invaders would welcome a hero with open arms. They want revenge, trust, loyalty, and would cry tears of joy. Who wouldn’t listen to such a person? Who wouldn’t respect him? Everyone hates the foreign occupation.

So, if your noble family wants to help your people, the first step is to create an army made of your own citizens. You can’t find better or more loyal soldiers than your own people. And when these good men are led, fed, and respected by their own ruler, they’ll be even stronger. Building an army like this is necessary if we want to use Italian courage to protect ourselves from foreign enemies.

It’s true that the Swiss and Spanish foot soldiers are strong, but they have weaknesses that another force could use to defeat them. The Spanish soldiers can’t stand up to cavalry, and the Swiss have trouble when they face infantry as determined as themselves. That’s why the Spanish lose to French cavalry attacks, and the Swiss fall apart against Spanish-style infantry.

Although we don’t have full proof of these Swiss weaknesses yet, this shows that new tactics and good weapons are more important for a ruler than just new laws and rules.
