Sharing Lombardy with the Venetians was something others had done when they took over land, and it was understandable because it gave him a starting point in Italy. But there was no real reason to share Naples with Spain, so that was a mistake.

Louis made five big mistakes: he got rid of the weaker states; he made one of Italy’s strongest states even more powerful; he brought in a super strong foreign king; he didn’t settle people in the land he took over; and he didn’t set up colonies there.

I talked about this with the Cardinal of Rouen when Duke Valentino (the nickname for Cesare Borgia, Pope Alexander’s son) was invading Romagna. The cardinal said Italians didn’t know how to fight wars, and I told him the French didn’t know much about politics, because if they did, they wouldn’t let the pope get so powerful.

Still, these mistakes might not have caused big problems while Louis was alive, if he hadn’t made a sixth mistake by taking power away from Venice. If he hadn’t made the pope stronger and brought Spain into Italy, it would have made sense to weaken Venice. But because he did those things, it was a bad idea to make Venice so weak.

As long as Venice was strong in the military, nobody would try to take Lombardy from France. The Venetians wouldn’t let another state attack unless they got land too, and other states wouldn’t want to take Lombardy if it meant giving it to Venice. Plus, no one would dare fight France and Venice at the same time.

Some might say Louis gave Romagna to the pope and Naples to Spain to avoid war. But remember, you should never ignore problems just to avoid war, because in the end, you won’t avoid it—you’ll just make it easier for your enemy later.

Others might say Louis promised the pope he would attack Venice if the pope gave him a divorce and made the Archbishop of Rouen a cardinal. But later I’ll explain when rulers should or shouldn’t keep their promises.

So Louis lost Lombardy because he didn’t take the right steps to keep it.
