By the time his Baglionis, Vitellis, and Orsinis showed up, no one joined their side. When his father died, he had already reached three of his four goals. Although Borgia couldn’t pick who would be the new pope, at least he could stop anyone he didn’t want from getting the job.

He had killed all the local rulers he could and hardly anyone had escaped. He had won over the Roman nobility and had a lot of power over the Electoral College. As for expanding his land, he wanted to control all of Tuscany. He had already taken Perugia and Piombino and was protecting Pisa.

Once France’s control weakened—actually, it already had because they lost the Kingdom of Naples to Spain—both the French and Spanish needed Borgia’s help. So, he planned to take Pisa. Lucca and Siena would probably give up quickly because they were afraid and didn’t like Florence, which wouldn’t be able to defend them.

If Borgia had done all this (and he almost did the year Alexander died), he would have gained so much power and respect that he could have handled any attacks by himself and wouldn’t have needed anyone else’s army or support. A new ruler who knows they have to fight enemies and make friends, who overcomes problems by force or trickery, who is both loved and feared, respected by soldiers, and able to fix old systems, would find no better example than Cesare Borgia.

He was ruthless and talented, knowing that you have to either win people over or destroy them. He built strong power quickly, but he was caught between two powerful, hostile armies and was very sick. He only fully controlled Romagna; his other lands were still shaky. He was isolated, sick, and surrounded by danger.

The good foundations Borgia had made became clear when Romagna stayed loyal for more than a month while he was almost dead in Rome. No one took advantage of his weakness, and his enemies couldn’t attack him successfully.

The only real criticism of Borgia is about his role in the election of Pope Julius. Borgia couldn’t force the election of the pope he wanted, but he did have enough influence to block candidates he didn’t like. However, he shouldn’t have let a cardinal who cared only about himself have a say in the election.
