Itisinthenatureofthingsthateverytimeyoutry toavoidonedangeryourunintoanother.Goodsenseconsists in being able to assess the dangers and choose the lesser of A ruler’s ministers various evils.
 
 A ruler must also show that he admires achievement in others, giving work to men of ability and rewarding people who excel in this or that craft. What’s more, he should reassure his subjects that they can go calmly about their business as merchants or farmers, or whatever other trade they practise, without worrying that if they increase their A ruler’s choice of ministers is an important matter. The wealththey’llbeindangerofhavingittakenawayfromthem, quality of the ministers will reflect his good sense or lack of or that if they start up a business they’ll be punitively taxed. itandgivepeopletheirfirst impressionofthewaytheruler’s Onthecontrary,arulershouldofferincentivestopeoplewho mindisworking.Ifhisministersarecapableandloyal,people want to do this kind of thing and to whoever plans to bring will always reckon a ruler astute, because he was able to prosperity to his city or state. Then at the right times of the recognizetheirabilityandcommandtheirloyalty.Whenthey yearheshouldentertainpeoplewithshowsandfestivals.And are not, people will always have reason to criticize, because since every city is divided into guilds and districts, he should thefirstmistaketherulermadewasinhischoiceofministers.
 
 respect these groups and go to their meetings from time to EveryonewhoknewAntoniodaVenafro,PandolfoPetrucci’s time, showing what a humane and generous person he is, minister in Siena, thought Pandolfo extremely smart for though without ever forgetting the authority of his position, having chosen him.
 
 something he must always keep to the fore. There are actually three kinds of mind: one kind grasps things unaided, the second sees what another has grasped, the third grasps nothing and sees nothing. The first kind is extremely valuable,the secondvaluable, thethird useless.So although Pandolfo didn’t have the first kind of mind, he certainlyhadthesecond;ifsomeoneissharpenoughtorecognize what’s right and wrong in what another man says and does, then even if he doesn’t have the creativity to make policy himself, he can still see which of his minister’s policies are positive and negative, encourage the good ones and correct the bad. The minister, meanwhile, will realize that he can’t fool the ruler and so will have to behave.
 
 Thereisoneinfalliblewayofcheckingaminister’scredentials: when you see the man thinking more for himself than 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 91 28/05/2015 14:14 92 the prince foryou,whenhispoliciesarealldesignedtoenhancehisown 23 interests, then he’ll never make a good minister and you’ll never be able to trust him.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
