He couldn’t keep the first people who believed in him loyal, and he couldn’t force those who doubted him to change their minds. But any new leader who wins a state by luck will face big problems and dangers at the start and must use their own skills to handle them. Once they do that and get rid of people who don’t like their success, so that others begin to respect and admire them, then they can enjoy their power safely and live with honor and satisfaction.

I’ve talked about four great leaders, but now I want to mention a less impressive man, Hiero of Syracuse. Even though he didn’t have to work hard to take over his state, he still needed some of the same qualities as the others and would have to work hard to keep it. Hiero started as a normal citizen but became King of Syracuse. His luck was that the Syracusans were under threat from Carthage, so they chose him as their military leader. He did such a good job that they made him king.

Even as a normal citizen, Hiero was talented. One writer said, "He had everything needed to be a king except a kingdom." Hiero broke up the old army and made a new one. He ended old alliances and made new ones. With his own soldiers and allies on his side, he built the base to create whatever he wanted. It took a lot of work to get his power, but not much effort to keep it.

These kinds of men depend completely on the people who gave them power, which is very unstable and unreliable. They don’t know how to keep power because, unless they are very talented and able, their lives as regular people haven’t prepared them to lead. Also, they don’t have an army they can trust to stay loyal. Like anything that starts suddenly and grows fast, these new rulers have weak foundations and will probably fall quickly in a crisis.

Unless, of course, the man who suddenly becomes a ruler is so talented that he works hard right away to protect what luck gave him and to build the strong base another leader would have made. For example, in some states, powerful families controlled everything and were afraid of the pope’s expanding power, so they couldn’t be trusted.
