Severus didn't act like someone who just wanted an easy life. The army loved him because he was tough and ruthless. His cruelty was so bad that after killing many people one by one, he ended up wiping out much of Rome’s population and all the people in Alexandria. By this point, everyone really hated him, and even those close to him got scared. In the end, a soldier killed him.

When Severus wanted to take full control of the empire, he had two big problems: one in Asia, where a commander named Pescennius Niger said he was emperor, and another in the west, where Albinus also wanted to be emperor. Severus decided it was risky to fight both at once, so he tricked Albinus by writing to him in France. He said since the Senate chose Severus as emperor, he wanted to share the power with Albinus. Severus gave him the title of Caesar and had the Senate make him co-emperor. Albinus believed him.

But after Severus defeated Niger and took over the eastern empire, he went back to Rome and told the Senate that Albinus was actually planning to kill him. So Severus went to France, took away Albinus’s power, and had him killed.

If you look closely at what Severus did, you’ll see he was both fierce like a lion and smart like a fox. He was respected and feared by everyone and managed to avoid being hated by the army. That’s why, even though he was new, he could hold so much power. His strong reputation protected him from the anger caused by his violence and cruelty.

Severus’s son, Antoninus, was also a good leader. People liked him, and the army welcomed him. He was a strong fighter who could handle tough situations and didn’t care for fancy food or comfort. But even though he was well thought of, he was eventually killed in a conspiracy after losing support from both the people and the army.

Now, about Commodus, who could have ruled the empire easily. He was the son of Marcus Aurelius and became emperor by right of birth. If he had just followed his father’s example, the army and people would have accepted him. But Commodus was cruel and greedy. He liked to show off to the soldiers and even fought as a gladiator in the arena, which was seen as shameful for an emperor. His soldiers didn’t respect him, and he was hated by the people. Eventually, a plot was made against him, and he was killed.

Finally, there was Maximinus. He was a real war lover. The armies had been unhappy with Alexander, who was weak and effeminate, so after getting rid of him, they chose Maximinus. The Praetorian Guard supported him because he was strong and tough.
