Hannibal (247–182 BC) was the son of Hamilcar. He was a leader of the Carthaginian army from 221 BC. He took an army, including war elephants, across the Iberian Peninsula, over the Pyrenees and Alps, and into northern Italy in what is called the Second Punic War. Even though he won some big battles, he had to go back home when the Romans attacked Carthage. He lost the Battle of Zama in 201 BC to Scipio Africanus. After that, he worked for many years as a leader in Carthage, making lots of changes. But when the Romans forced him into exile, he killed himself to avoid being captured.

Marcus Didius Julianus (c. 133–193) became Roman emperor after the Praetorian Guard killed the previous emperor, Pertinax. Julianus was only emperor for sixty-six days before he was murdered. Septimius Severus, who did not accept Julianus as emperor, came to Rome and took over.

Julius II (Giuliano della Rovere, 1443–1513) was made pope in 1503 after Pius III died. Julius II had been a strong enemy of the Borgia family, especially Cesare Borgia. He quickly broke the power of the Borgias and stopped the fight between the Orsini and Colonna families. He also took control of some lands in Italy, like Perugia and Bologna. In 1508, he formed the League of Cambrai with France, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire to push the Venetians out of Romagna. But later, worried about France becoming too strong, Julius teamed up with Venice to fight Louis XII. He was a big supporter of the arts and started building St. Peter’s Basilica in 1506. He also hired Michelangelo to paint the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.

Heliogabalus (c. 203–222) was a Roman emperor from 218 to 222. He was the grandson of the aunt of the murdered emperor Caracalla. Some people thought he was Caracalla’s illegitimate son. He became emperor after Macrinus was defeated and killed. Heliogabalus tried to change Roman religious traditions and broke many rules. He married five times before he was eighteen. But he was killed and replaced by his cousin Severus Alexander.

Hiero II was king of Syracuse from 270 to 215 BC. He was the illegitimate son of a nobleman and a general with Pyrrhus. After Pyrrhus left, Hiero became leader of Syracuse in 275 BC. He fought against the Mamertines (people from present-day Messina) but later made a deal with Rome in 263 BC. This deal kept his kingdom safe in exchange for helping Rome in their war with Carthage. Hiero was related to Archimedes, who invented many useful things, especially for the military.

Leo X (Giovanni de’ Medici, 1475–1521) became pope in 1513. He was made a cardinal when he was just thirteen. Leo’s time as pope is known for selling indulgences to pay for building St. Peter’s Basilica. He worked hard to help his Medici family and reacted strongly to Martin Luther’s 95 theses, which criticized indulgences. In 1513, he teamed up with Venice and other powers to kick the French out of Italy but later made friends with the French against the Holy Roman Empire.

Joanna II (1373–1435) was queen of Naples from 1414 to 1435. She had no children and let her court be controlled by her favorite people. She played the powerful Anjou and Aragon families against each other by offering the throne to important members of both families. This caused fights between the royal families.

Louis XI (1423–1483) was king of France from 1461 to 1483. He made the king stronger compared to the barons (noble lords). He also added Burgundy and Anjou to the French kingdom.
