They thought they needed a little more control over the people in the back.

The king also knew that the people really didn’t like or trust the nobles, and he wanted to protect both groups. But it was important that the king himself didn’t have to take the blame for dealing with problems, because then the nobles might accuse him of being unfair to the people, or the people might think he favored the nobles. So, he created a separate group called parliament to keep the nobles in check and protect the people, without the king having to be involved directly. This was a smart and safe way to keep everyone balanced.

I could give lots of examples, but here’s one from not too long ago. Annibale Bentivogli, the grandfather of the current Annibale, was the Duke of Bologna when a group called the Canneschis plotted against him and killed him. At that time, his only family left was his baby son, Giovanni. Right after Annibale’s murder, the people got really angry and killed all the Canneschis because the Bentivogli family was very popular. The people of Bologna then went to Florence to find someone to govern the town. They chose a man who pretended to be a Bentivogli but was actually the son of a blacksmith. He ruled until Giovanni was old enough to take over.

So, my point is this: if a ruler has the people on his side, he doesn’t have to worry much about conspiracies. But if the people hate him, he has to be very careful and watch every move he makes. Good rulers and well-run countries always try not to upset the nobles too much and also keep the people happy. This is one of the most important jobs for any ruler.

Today, France is one of the best-governed countries. It has strong systems that keep the king safe and free to act. The most important of these is parliament, which has real power. In other places, a ruler might only have to worry about nobles’ ambition and fear punishment, but in France, the king also has the support of the government, the laws, his friends, and the whole country to back him up.
