When you look closely at why rulers act the way they do during peace and war, it’s easier to understand how they keep control. In war, everyone can see when a leader’s plan is flawed. History shows that it’s easier to win over people who liked the old government. These people might even join your side and help you defeat your enemies.

Rulers become great by beating the problems and enemies in their way. When fate wants to make a new ruler great—especially one who isn’t born into power—they often get enemies right away. This gives them a chance to defeat those enemies and become stronger. So, a smart ruler might actually start fights on purpose to boost their reputation by winning.

One way rulers keep power is by building forts. Forts stop enemies from attacking and give a safe place if an attack happens. I think building forts is a good idea because it has worked for a long time. For example, Niccolò Vitelli destroyed two forts in a town so he could control it better. When Guidobaldo took back his land after Cesare Borgia’s rule, he destroyed all the forts so he wouldn’t lose it again. The Bentivoglio family did the same when they got power back in Bologna.

But whether forts are helpful depends on the situation. Sometimes they help, sometimes they cause problems. Here’s why: if a ruler is more scared of his own people than foreign enemies, he should build forts. If he fears foreign enemies more, he should avoid forts. The castle that Francesco Sforza built in Milan caused more rebellions than anything else.

The best way to protect yourself is not to make people hate you. Even if you have forts, they won’t save you if your people turn against you. When people decide to fight you, they will find foreign help anyway.

A new ruler who takes control of a place should think hard about why the locals helped him. If they helped only because they didn’t like the old ruler, they will be hard to keep happy. The new ruler might not be able to give them what they want, so they’ll be demanding and hard to trust.

The only recent example of a fort really helping was Countess Caterina Sforza. When her husband was killed, she hid in a fort, survived a rebel attack, waited for help, and then won. But this is rare. Usually, forts and other tricks don’t help much if the people don’t support you.
