This was such a and wouldn’t accept the standards of honesty Pertinax tried toughproblemthatitprovedthedownfallofmanyemperors, toimposeonthem.ThisarousedtheirhatredandsincePertibecause it was so hard to keep both the people and the army naxwasalsodespisedforbeingoldhewassoonoverthrown.
 
 happy. The people were for a quiet life and hence loved In this regard it’s worth noting that you can be hated just low-profileleaders,whilethesoldierslovedleaderswithmili- as much for the good you do as the bad, which is why, as I tary ambitions, men who were brazen, grasping and cruel; saidbefore,arulerwhowantstostayinpowerisoftenforced they wanted the emperor to unleash these qualities on the not to be good. Because when a powerful group – whether people so that they could double their incomes and give vent they be the common people, the army or the nobility – is to their own greed and cruelty. corrupt,thenifyoureckonyouneedtheirsupportyou’llhave As a result, emperors who for lack of natural authority or toplaytotheirmoodandkeepthemhappy,andatthatpoint politicalflairdidn’thavethekindofstandingthatcouldhold any good you do will only put you at risk. But let’s move on bothsoldiersandpeopleincheckalwaysendedbadly.When toAlexander.Hewassuchagoodmanthatamongthemany they saw how difficult it was to deal with these conflicting thingshewaspraisedforwasthefactthatoverfourteenyears demands, most of them, and especially those new to power, in power he never had anyone executed without a trial. All chosetosatisfythearmyandmoreorlessignoredthepeople’s the same, people despised him; they thought him effeminate suffering.Itwasapolicydictatedbynecessity:ifarulercan’t and said he let his mother run the show; as a result the army avoid hatred altogether, he must first try to avoid the hatred conspired against him and killed him.
 
 of the country as a whole, and when that proves impossible Goingtotheoppositeextremeandlookingatthecharacters he must do everything he can to escape the hatred of the ofCommodus,Severus,AntoninusCaracallaandMaximinus, classes that wield the most power. So emperors new to their we find they were extremely cruel and grasping; to keep the positions and in need of special support turned to the army armyhappytheycommittedeverycrimealeadercancommit rather than the people, a policy that worked for as long as against his people and all of them, with the exception of they were able to maintain their prestige in the eyes of the Severus,cametoasadend.Severushadsuchastrongcharacter soldiers. thatthoughhetyrannizedthepeopletokeepthearmyfriendly This is why, although Marcus, Pertinax and Alexander he was always able to govern with success; his qualities were benign, humane men, who led unassuming lives, loving amazedandawedthepeople,impressedandpleasedthearmy, justice and hating cruelty, only Marcus managed to avoid a so that both groups in their different ways admired him.
 
 sad end and still commanded respect at his death. This was Since,for amanwhotook powerratherthaninheriting it, because he succeeded to the emperor’s throne by hereditary Severusachievedsuchalot,I’dlikeverybrieflytoshowhow right and owed nothing to either the soldiers or the people. well he was able to play both the fox and the lion, animals Possessing many good qualities that aroused general admir- that, as I said, a ruler must learn to imitate.
 
 ation, he kept both the people and the army in their place Aware that the emperor Julian was weak and indecisive, throughout his reign and was never either hated or despised. Severus persuaded the army he commanded in Slavonia to ButPertinaxwasmadeemperoragainstthearmy’swill;under marchonRomeandavengePertinax,whohadbeenmurdered 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 76 28/05/2015 14:14 76 the prince avoiding contempt and hatred 77 the disrespect of the people, Roman emperors faced a third Commodusthesoldiershadgotusedtoadegeneratelifestyle hazard: the greed and cruelty of the army.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
