You can see the country is praying to God to send someone to save her from the cruelty and violence of foreigners. She is ready and willing to fight against foreign control, if only someone would raise a flag to lead her.

What I can’t see is any family the country can trust right now, except your famous family, which is blessed with good qualities and fortune. Your family is favored by God and the Church—actually running the Church—and so is in a good position to lead Italy to freedom. 

If you think about the lives and achievements of the men I’ve talked about, it shouldn’t be too hard for a smart person with the right qualities to bring honor to himself and do good for the people. Those men were great, but they were still just men, and none had a better chance than you do now. They didn’t have a kinder fate than you have. Justice is definitely on your side because war is only just when there’s no other choice, and fighting is okay when it’s your only hope.

Many things show that now is the right time for a new leader in Italy. If Moses could only appear after the Israelites were slaves in Egypt, if Cyrus came after the Persians were defeated by the Medes, and Theseus showed his skill after the Athenians were beaten and scattered, then today, for us, the signs are clear. The country was crushed and divided like those before, but now the sea has parted, a cloud has led the way, stone has given water, manna has rained from heaven, and everything has worked together to make you great. The rest is up to you. God isn’t doing everything for us; he wants us to have free will and take part in the glory.

There was one man who showed signs of greatness and seemed sent by God to save the country, but his luck changed at the height of his success. So now Italy lies half-dead, waiting for someone to heal her wounds and stop the damage from Lombardy and the heavy taxes. The old states were badly organized, and no one knew how to fix things. Nothing brings more honor to a new ruler than the new laws and systems he creates.

It’s no surprise if none of the Italians I’ve mentioned have done what I believe your family can do. But if all our recent wars and revolutions have made it seem like the country has lost the will to fight, it’s because the old leaders were weak. Now is the chance for you to change that.
