Inthiswaytheacquiredterritoryand by the new king. the king’s original possessions will soon form a single entity.
 
 Ofcourse,whenakingreturnstowinbackaterritorythat But when a ruler occupies a state in an area that has a has rebelled like this, he is less likely to lose it a second time. different language, different customs and different instiHaving learned from the rebellion, he’ll have fewer scruples tutions,thenthingsgettough.Toholdontoanewpossession whenitcomestopunishingtroublemakers,interrogatingsus- in these circumstances takes a lot of luck and hard work.
 
 pects and strengthening any weak points in his defences. So Perhaps the most effective solution is for the new ruler to go whilethefirsttimeLouisinvadedMilanittooknomorethan and live there himself. This will improve security and make a little sword-rattling along the borders from Ludovico to the territory more stable. The Turkish sultan did this in forcearetreat,thesecondtimeitwouldtakethewholeworld Greece, and all the other measures he took to hold on to the to defeat his armies and drive them out of Italy. This for the countrywouldhavebeenineffectiveifhehadn’t.Whenyou’re reasonslistedabove.Allthesame,theyweredrivenoutboth actuallythere,youcanseewhenthingsstartgoingwrongand times. nip rebellion in the bud; when you’re far away you only find The general reasons behind the first French defeat have outabout itwhen it’stoo late.Another advantageis thatthe been discussed. It remains to explain why Louis lost Milan newterritorywon’tbeplunderedbyyourofficials.Itssubjects the second time and to see what counter-measures he could will be happy that they can appeal to a ruler who is living have taken and what options a ruler has in a situation like among them. So, if they’re intending to be obedient, they’ll this if he wants to hold on to his conquest. have one more reason to love you, and if they’re not, all the Needless to say, any territory annexed to the realm of a more reason to fear you. Anyone planning an attack from conqueringrulermayormaynotbeinthesamegeographical outsidewillthinktwice aboutit.So,ifyougo andliveinthe region and share the same language. If it is and the language new territory you’ve taken, you’re very unlikely to lose it.
 
 is shared, the territory will be much easier to hold on to, Another good solution is to establish colonies in one or especially if its people are not used to the freedom of self- twoplaces.Theseworkratherlikechainstobindthecaptured government. In that case all you have to do is eliminate the state to your own. If you don’t do this you’ll have to keep familyofthepreviousrulerandyourholdonpowerisguaran- large numbers of infantry and cavalry in the territory.
 
 teed.Everythingelseintheterritorycanthenbeleftasitwas Colonies don’t cost a great deal. You can send and maintain and,giventhattherearenoprofounddifferencesincustoms, them very cheaply and they only arouse the hostility of the people will accept the situation quietly enough. Certainly peoplewhosehousesandlandareexpropriatedtogivetothe this has proved true in Burgundy, Brittany, Gascony and colonists. Since that will only be a very small proportion of Normandy,allofwhichhavenowbeenunderFrenchrulefor the population, and since these people will now be poor and manyyears.Evenwherethereissomedifferenceinlanguage, willhavefledtodifferentplaces,theycanhardlycausemuch thecustomsoftheseterritoriesaresimilarandpeoplecanget trouble.Everyoneelsewillbeunaffected(hencepronetokeep alongwitheachother.Soarulerwhohastakenterritoriesin quiet)and atthe sametime frightenedof steppingout ofline these circumstances musthave two priorities: first,to elimin- for fear of having their own houses and land taken away.
 
 atethefamilyofthepreviousrulers;second,toleavealllaws In conclusion, colonies are cheap, more loyal, provoke less 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 9 28/05/2015 14:14 10 the prince mixed monarchies 11 hostility among your new subjects, and, as I’ve said, those power and authority.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
