When they are well thought out and show vision they gotaglimpseofitatthebattleofRavennawhentheSpanish bring a ruler respect and admiration. Italy is hardly lacking infantry took on the Germans, who use the same tactics as inrawmaterialforthemanwhowantstogiveformtoit.The the Swiss. Relying on their agility and their small round limbs are healthy and strong; all they need is a head to guide shields, the Spanish got under the German pikes, where, safe them. Look how much stronger, defter and more skilful themselves,theycouldstrikeatwill.AtthispointtheGermans Italians are than foreigners in duels or small skirmishes. But were helpless and if the cavalry hadn’t turned up to push the whenitcomestoarmiestheycan’tcompete.Becausetheyare Spanish back they’d all have been killed. Knowing the weak badly led. The capable men are ignored, the incapable are points of these two armies, then, it’s quite possible to train a convinced they are capable, and to date no one has had the newarmythatcouldholdbackacavalryattackandwouldn’t talent and luck to score the sort of success that would force be unsettled by infantry combat: it’s a question of what the others to stand aside. That’s why in all these wars over weaponsyouhaveandwhatnewtacticsyoucaninvent.These the past twenty years, whenever an army has been entirely are the kinds of developments that enhance a new ruler’s made up of Italians it has always failed miserably, as witness reputation and bring him great prestige.
 
 first the battle of Taro, then those of Alessandria, Capua, It would be a big mistake, then, after all this time, to pass Genova, Vaila`, Bologna and Mestre. upthechanceofrescuingItaly.Wordscan’texpresstheloving So if your illustrious family should choose to follow in the welcome such a saviour would get in all the towns that have steps of those excellent men who came to the rescue of their suffered from this torrent of foreign invaders: the thirst for peoples, the first thing that needs to be done, the real foun- revenge, the unswerving trust, the devotion, the tears. What dation of any such achievement, is to establish an army of doors would be closed to such a man? Who would refuse to your own citizens. You can’t have more loyal, determined obey him? What envy could stand in his way? What Italian and better soldiers than your own. And if each man taken would not bow his knee? Everybody loathes this barbarous singly is good, when they’re all together and find themselves occupation. So, may your noble house undertake this duty led,fedandrespectedbytheirownrulerthey’llbeevenbetter. with the spirit and hope that inspire just causes, so that our Founding an army like this is absolutely essential if we country may be glorified under your banner, and under your are to use Italian mettle to defend ourselves against foreign protection Petrarch’s words be fulfilled: enemies.
 
 It’s true that the Swiss and Spanish infantries are thought Virtueagainstfury tobeformidable,butbothhaveweakpointsthatwouldallow Shalltakeuparms;andthefightbeshort; a third force not only to face them but to feel confident of Forancientvalour beating them. The Spanish can’t stand up to cavalry and the IsnotdeadinItalianhearts.* Swissareintroublewhentheyrunintoinfantryasdetermined *Virtu` controafurore as themselves. That’s why, as we’ve seen and will see again, Prendera` l’arme;efiaelcombattercorto; the Spanish can’t turn back a French cavalry attack and the Che´ l’anticovalore SwisscollapseinfrontofaSpanish-styleinfantry.Andthough Nelliitalicicornone` ancormorto.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 105 28/05/2015 14:14 .
 

 
(Simplified)
 
