Then, using his own strength and the help of a few people who get angry but can’t fight back because they’ve already lost, he can easily weaken the stronger neighbors and take control of the area. But if an invader doesn’t handle relationships with the new neighbors well, he will lose the land he took. Even while holding on, he’ll face many problems and enemies.

If you want to hurt people, you have to either spoil them or destroy them completely. If you hurt them a little, they’ll fight back. If you hurt them a lot, they won’t be able to. So, if you’re going to harm people, make sure you don’t have to worry about their reaction.

If you send an army to take over instead of setting up colonies, it will cost a lot more money. All the money from the new land will go into paying for the army and defending it, turning what should have been a gain into a loss. Also, moving an army around damages the whole area and makes everyone angry. These are enemies who can still fight back, even if they’ve been beaten. So, no matter how you look at it, military bases don’t do much good, while colonies can be useful.

A leader who moves into a new place with different customs and language must become the leader and protector of the weaker neighbors while weakening the stronger ones. He has to make sure no powerful foreign ruler can take over. The Romans did this well when they took over new lands. They sent settlers, made friends with weaker neighbors, and stopped stronger neighbors and outside rulers from gaining power. For example, in Greece, they made good relations with some groups, stopped Macedonia’s power, and kept strong rulers out. They didn’t give rewards like land, and whenever friendly neighbors made deals with strong leaders, the Romans made sure those leaders lost power.

The Romans did what smart rulers must do: not just deal with problems now but also use every way to stop future problems. If you see trouble coming, you can stop it early. But if you wait until it happens, it will be too late to fix.

Think about doctors and tuberculosis: early on, it’s easy to cure but hard to notice. If you don’t catch it early, it gets easy to notice but hard to cure. The same goes for politics. If you see trouble early and act smart, you can fix it fast. If you miss it, it will get too big, and everyone will join the enemy.

When a strong foreign ruler moves into a new area, the weaker local powers usually support him because they are unhappy with the stronger neighbors. So, the new ruler will have no problem gaining support. But he has to be careful they don’t get too much power and cause problems.
