Maximilian was followed by his grandson Charles V, who also became King of Spain. The Orsini leaders were invited to Senigallia to negotiate an agreement but were killed instead.

Maximinus Gaius Julius Verus Maximinus (around 173–238) was a Roman emperor and former soldier. He was born in Thrace and came from a simple background. Maximinus became a skilled military leader and led a rebellion against the young emperor Alexander Severus, who was abandoned and killed by his own troops. The Senate didn’t like Maximinus because he was harsh, and he faced many rebellions before his own soldiers killed him.

Paulo Orsini was the leader of the Orsini family during Cesare Borgia’s rise to power. He accepted an invitation to negotiate at Senigallia, but Borgia had him strangled when he arrived.

Moses was a Hebrew leader from the Old Testament who led the Jews out of slavery in Egypt to the promised land.

Nabis was the ruler of Sparta from 207 to 192 BC. He was determined to make Sparta great again. After expanding his territory, he was attacked by the Romans and others. Although he lost most of his lands, he kept control of Sparta until he was killed by enemies.

Pertinax was a Roman emperor for three months in 193. He became emperor after Commodus was killed but failed to give the army the money they expected. His strict rules made the soldiers angry, and he was murdered when 300 soldiers stormed his palace.

Petrarch (1304–74) was a scholar, poet, and early humanist. His work on sonnets greatly influenced European poetry for hundreds of years. The lines Machiavelli quotes at the end of The Prince come from Petrarch’s poetry, where he asks Italian leaders to stop using foreign soldiers to fight their civil wars.

Oliverotto Euffreducci (around 1475–1502) was a mercenary leader who took power in Fermo in 1502. He used force to get rid of his enemies but was killed by Borgia in Senigallia the same year.

Pandolfo Petrucci (1452–1512) was a powerful leader in Siena. His faction overthrew their opponents in 1487. From 1502, he ruled the town but kept the old government structure. Machiavelli met him several times while working as an ambassador for Florence.

Remirro de Orco (around 1452–1502) was a military leader working for Cesare Borgia. After fighting in many battles for Borgia, he was made governor of Romagna in 1501. He was arrested for corruption and executed in 1502.

Machiavelli talks about two Philips of Macedonia:

(1) Philip II (382–336 BC) was King of Macedonia and father of Alexander the Great. He became king after his older brothers died and rebuilt Macedonia by winning wars and making smart deals. He was killed by one of his bodyguards.

(2) Philip V (238–178 BC) was also King of Macedonia from 220 to 178 BC.

The Orsini and Colonna were two powerful Roman families that fought for control from the late 1200s to the late 1400s. Both had their own mercenary armies. Cesare Borgia used the Orsini army early in his campaigns but later broke with them when he thought they were plotting against him. He invited the Orsini leaders to Senigallia to discuss a deal but had them killed.
