When you look closely at why rulers keep control during peace, it’s easier to understand how they manage people by using examples from history. In war, it’s clear that their plans often have problems. History shows that it’s easier to win over people who liked the old government than those who didn’t. These unhappy people usually join your enemies.

Rulers become great by beating the problems and enemies they face. When fate wants to make a new ruler great—especially one who isn’t born into power—they often get enemies who want to attack them. This gives the ruler a chance to fight back and get stronger by defeating those enemies. So, smart rulers sometimes purposely make enemies to prove how powerful they are.

One way rulers keep their power is by building fortresses. These protect against attacks and give a safe place if things go wrong. I think this is a good idea because it has been done for hundreds of years. For example, Niccolò Vitelli tore down two castles in a town he controlled to help keep it safe. When Guidobaldo took back his lands, he destroyed all the fortresses so he wouldn’t lose control again. The Bentivoglio family did the same when they returned to power. But whether fortresses help or hurt depends on the situation.

Rulers, especially new ones, often find that people who doubted them at first end up being more loyal than those they trusted from the start. It’s hard to make strict rules here because every case is different. But basically, a ruler can win over people who didn’t like him at first if those people can’t support themselves. They’ll have to be more loyal to survive and fix the bad opinion the ruler had of them. So, rulers get more from these people than from those who feel too safe and don’t try hard.

A ruler who’s more scared of his own people than foreign enemies should build fortresses. But if a ruler fears foreign enemies more, he might be better off without them. For example, Francesco Sforza’s castle in Milan caused more rebellions than any other problem. The best way to stay safe is not to be hated by the people. Even with forts, if the people hate you, they will fight against you and get support from outsiders.

New rulers must think carefully about why the locals helped them. If it wasn’t because they liked the new ruler but just because the old government was bad, those locals will be hard to keep happy. The new ruler might not be able to give them what they want. For example, the Countess of Forlì, Caterina Sforza, used her fortress to survive after her husband was killed. She held out against rebels until help arrived, then took control again.
