Monarchy with public support But a man coming to power with the support of the common people holds it alone and has no one, or hardly anyone, around him who’s unwilling to obey. What’s more, youcan’tingoodfaithgivethenobleswhattheywantwithout doing harm to others; but you can with the people. Because the people’s aspirations are more honourable than those of the nobles: the nobles want to oppress the people, while the Now let’s turn to our second case, where a private citizen peoplewanttobefreefromoppression.What’smore,aking becomeskinginhisowncountrynotbycrimeorunacceptable can never be safe if the common people are hostile to him, violence, but with the support of his fellow-citizens. We can becausetherearesomanyofthem;buthecanprotecthimself call this a monarchy with public support and to become its against the nobles, since there are not so many. The worst a king you don’t have to be wholly brilliant or extraordinarily king can expect if the people turn hostile is that they will lucky,justshrewdinaluckyway.Obviously,totakecontrol desert him; but when the nobles turn against him, he has ofthiskindofstateyouneedthesupportofeitherthecommon tofearnotonlydesertion,butadirectattack.Thenoblesare people or the wealthy families, the nobles. In every city one smarter, they see further ahead, they always move early finds these two conflicting political positions: there are the enoughtosavetheirskins,ingratiatingthemselveswithwhocommonpeoplewhoareeagernottobeorderedaroundand evertheythinkwillturnoutthewinner.Then,ofnecessity,a oppressedbythenoblefamilies,andtherearethenobleswho king will always have to live with the same common people; are eager to oppress the common people and order them buthecanperfectlywellgetbywithoutthesamenobles,since around. These opposing impulses will lead to one of three he can make and unmake noblemen every day, giving and different situations: a monarchy, a republic, or anarchy. taking away honours as he likes.
 
 A monarchy can be brought about either by the common Let’s settle this question of the nobles. As I see it, they can people or the nobles, when one or the other party finds it be divided for the most part into two categories: either they convenient. Seeing that they can’t control the people, the behave in such a way as to tie themselves entirely to your wealthyfamiliesbegintoconcentrateprestigeononeoftheir destiny,ortheydon’t.Thosewhodotiethemselvesandaren’t number and make him king so as to be able to get what they greedy should be honoured and loved; the ones who don’t want in his shadow. Likewise, the people, seeing that they can be further divided into two groups. Maybe they are can’t resist the power of the nobles, concentrate prestige on anxious men, naturally lacking in character, in which case one citizen and make him king so that his authority will you’dbettermakeuseofthem,especiallytheoneswithgood protect them. A king who comes to power with the help of advicetooffer,sincewhenthingsaregoingwellthey’llrespect the rich nobles will have more trouble keeping it than the you and when things are tough you needn’t fear them; but if king who gets there with the support of the people, because they’rehangingbackoutofcalculationandambitionthat’sa 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 39 28/05/2015 14:14 40 the prince monarchy with public support 41 signthey’relookingmoretotheirownintereststhantoyours.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
