Maximilian was followed by his grandson Charles V, who also became King of Spain. The Orsini leaders went to Senigallia pretending to negotiate a deal, but they were actually killed.

Maximinus Gaius Julius Verus Maximinus (around 173–238) was a Roman emperor and former mercenary commander. Born in Thrace and from a humble background, he became a skilled military leader. He led a rebellion against the young emperor Alexander Severus, who was abandoned by his own troops and then killed. The Roman Senate hated Maximinus, and he faced many rebellions and plots, which he crushed until his own soldiers killed him.

Paulo Orsini was the leader of the Orsini family during Cesare Borgia’s rise to power. He accepted an invitation to negotiate at Senigallia, but Borgia had him strangled as soon as he arrived.

Moses was a Hebrew leader in the Old Testament who led the Jewish people out of slavery in Egypt to the “promised land.”

Nabis was the ruler of Sparta from 207 to 192 BC. He was determined to make Sparta great again. After expanding Sparta’s territory, he was attacked by the Romans and their allies. He was defeated but managed to keep control of Sparta until he was killed by enemies.

Pertinax was a Roman emperor for three months in 193. After the previous emperor was killed, Pertinax became emperor but failed to pay the army what they expected. When he tried to bring order, the soldiers got angry and killed him when they stormed his palace.

Petrarch (1304–74) was a scholar, poet, and one of the first Humanists. His work on sonnets influenced European poetry for centuries. Some lines from his poems are even quoted in Machiavelli’s book, The Prince, where Petrarch asks Italian leaders to stop using foreign mercenaries in their civil wars.

Oliverotto Euffreducci was a mercenary commander who took power in Fermo in 1502 by force and killed his enemies. He himself was later killed by Cesare Borgia in 1502.

Pandolfo Petrucci was a powerful leader in Siena from 1487. His faction overthrew rivals in a coup. He ruled the town but kept the idea of a republic. Machiavelli met and negotiated with him several times as Florence’s ambassador.

Remirro de Orco was a military commander serving Cesare Borgia. He fought many battles for Borgia and was made governor of Romagna in 1501. He was arrested for corruption and executed in 1502.

Machiavelli talks about two Philips of Macedonia. The first is Philip II (382–336 BC), father of Alexander the Great, who rebuilt Macedonia through wars and smart deals but was killed by a bodyguard. The second is Philip V (238–178 BC), who continued expanding Macedonia until the Romans defeated him in 200 BC.

The Orsini and Colonna were two powerful Roman families who fought for control from the 1200s to the 1400s. They both had mercenary armies. Cesare Borgia first used the Orsini army but later turned against them when he thought they were plotting against him.

During 1494 to 1498, a leader ruled a city as a theocracy, encouraging people to burn anything considered sinful, like books and paintings, in what was called the Bonfire of the Vanities.
