Every town had to send someone to represent them, and he took that chance. He realized too late that the growing power of Borgia and the Church could ruin them. Some people hated him because he had been harsh. So, the Orsini planned to meet at Magione, near Perugia, hoping to change their minds and get them on their side.

The meeting caused a rebellion in Urbino and uprisings in Romagna, creating many problems for Borgia. But with help from the French, he managed to win. To prove that his harsh rule was because of his brutal minister and not him, Borgia found an excuse to have Orcobeheaded. Orcos’s body was put on display in the main square in Cesena with a wooden block and a bloody knife. The shocking scene made people feel both scared and relieved.

Now, back to where we left off. Borgia had strengthened his power and protected himself from most dangers. He built his own army and fought off most of the other armies near him. The only thing stopping him from expanding more was the King of France. Borgia knew the king had realized he made a mistake supporting him before and wouldn’t allow more trouble. So Borgia started looking for new allies and wasn’t very helpful when the king marched south to fight the Spanish who were attacking Gaeta in northern Naples. Borgia wanted to avoid French interference, which he probably would have done if his father, Pope Alexander, hadn’t died.

When Borgia took control of Romagna, he found it was run by weak leaders who stole from people and caused fights instead of helping. There were many problems like theft and injustice. So he decided that good government was needed to calm the area and make people respect authority. He chose Remirro de Orco, a tough and cruel man, to control the area. De Orco quickly brought peace and was known for being strict.

After that, Borgia thought such harsh methods might cause anger, so he set up a civil court in the middle of the territory to keep things fair. He planned four ways to protect his power: first, get rid of the families of local rulers to stop a new pope from restoring them; second, gain the support of Rome’s noble families to block any papal actions; third, take as much control as possible; and fourth, eliminate the main Orsini men.
