14 So, if a man can’t spot a problem in the making, he can’t reallybeawiseleader.Butveryfewmenhavethisgift.Ifyou lookfortheinitialcauseofthecollapseoftheRomanempire, A ruler and his army you’ll find it was when they started hiring Goths as mercenaries.Fromthatmomentonthestrengthoftheempirebegan to decline and all the determination that drained out of it went to strengthen its rivals.
 
 So,toconclude:nostateissecurewithoutitsownarmy;if it hasn’t got men to defend it determinedly and loyally in a crisis, it is simply relying on luck. As those who understand A ruler, then, must have no other aim or consideration, nor these things have always thought and said: There is nothing seek to develop any other vocation outside war, the organizso weak and unstable as a reputation for power that is not ation of the army and military discipline. This is the only backed up by its own army.* And having your own army proper vocation of the man in command. And it’s such a means having a force made up of subjects, or citizens, or potent one that it not only keeps those born to rule on their men dependent on you. All other forces are mercenaries or thrones but often raises private citizens to political power.
 
 auxiliaries. To see how to set up your own armed forces, all Vice versa, when rulers think more about frills than fightyouneeddoisconsiderhowthefourmenImentionedabove ing they lose their thrones. In fact, the thing most likely to organized and arranged theirs, or Philip, Alexander the bring about a ruler’s downfall is his neglect of the art of Great’s father, or many other kingdoms and republics. They war; the thing most likely to win him power is becoming an are all entirely reliable models. expert in it.
 
 A military man with his own army, Francesco Sforza rose from commoner to Duke of Milan; shunning military hardships, his sons fell from dukes to commoners. For one of the many negative consequences of not having an army is that peoplewillfindyoupathetic,andthisisastigmaarulermust guard against, as I’ll explain. The fact is that between a man who has an army and a man who hasn’t there is simply no comparison. And there is no reason why a man who commands an armed force should willingly obey a man who doesn’t,orwhyamanwhodoesn’tcommandanarmyshould live safely beside a servant who does. The one will harbour contempt and the other suspicion and they won’t be able to work well together. So, quite apart from the other disadvan*Quodnihilsittaminfirmumautinstabilequamfamapotentiaenonsua vinixa. tages, aruler whodoesn’t involvehimself in militarymatters 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 57 28/05/2015 14:14 58 the prince a ruler and his army 59 won’t, as I’ve said, have his soldiers’ respect and won’t be so much so that, thanks to this constant work of mental able to trust them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
