Since each of these came considerationandwillbetakenasarewardbywhoeverwins.’ as a consequence of the one before, he never gave the more The contender who is not your ally will always try to get powerful men in the country any slack time between wars youtostayneutralandyourallywillalwaystrytogetyouto when they could plot against him. fight. Indecisive rulers who want to avoid immediate danger Aleadercanalsowinacclaimbygivingimpressivedemon- usually decide to stay neutral, and usually things end badly strations of character in his handling of domestic affairs, as for them. But if you declare yourself courageously for one Bernabo` Visconti did in Milan; whenever anyone does any- side or the other and your ally wins, he’ll be indebted to you thing remarkable, whether for good or ill, in civil life, you andthere’llbeabondoffriendshipbetweenyou,sothateven think up some reward or punishment that will cause a stir. if he is more powerful now and has you at his mercy he’s But above all a ruler must make sure that everything he not going to be so shameless as to take advantage of the does gives people the impression that he is a great man of circumstances and become an example of ingratitude. Vicremarkable abilities. toriesareneversodecisivethatthewinnercanoverrideevery A ruler will also be respected when he is a genuine friend principle, justice in particular. But if your ally loses, you’re andagenuineenemy,thatis,whenhedeclareshimselfunam- still his friend and he’ll offer what help he can: you become biguously for one side and against the other. This policy will companions in misfortune, and your luck could always turn.
 
 always bring better results than neutrality. For example, if In the event that the two neighbours going to war are not you have two powerful neighbours who go to war, you may so powerful that you need fear the winner, it is even more ormaynothavereasonto fearthewinnerafterwards.Either sensible to take sides and get involved: you’ll be destroying way it will always be better to take sides and fight hard. If onewiththehelpofanotherwho,ifhehadanysense,would you do have cause to fear but stay neutral, you’ll still be beprotectingtheloser.Andwhenyourallywins,whichwith gobbled up by the winner to the amusement and satisfaction your help is inevitable, he’ll be at your mercy.
 
 of the loser; you’ll have no excuses, no defence and nowhere Here it’s worth noting that a ruler must never ally himself to hide. Because a winner doesn’t want half-hearted friends with someone more powerful in order to attack his enemies, whodon’thelphiminacrisis;andtheloserwillhavenothing unless, as I said above, it is absolutely necessary. Because todowithyousinceyoudidn’tchoosetofightalongsidehim when you win you’ll be at your ally’s mercy, and whenever and share his fate. possible rulers must avoid placing themselves in another’s When Antiochus was sent to Greece by the Aetolians to power.TheVenetiansalliedthemselveswithFrancetoattack pushbacktheRomans,hesentambassadorstotheAchaeans, theDukeofMilan.Itwasanalliancetheycouldhaveavoided who were allied to the Romans, asking them to remain neu- and it led to disaster. But when such an alliance can’t be tral,whilefortheirparttheRomansencouragedthemtojoin avoided, as was the case with Florence when the pope and thewarontheirside.TheAchaeancouncildebatedthematter SpaintooktheirarmiestoattackLombardy,thenarulermust and after Antiochus’s ambassador had spoken, asking them take sides for the reasons set out above. In general, a ruler to remain neutral, the Roman ambassador replied: ‘With must never imagine that any decision he takes is safe; on the 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 88 28/05/2015 14:14 88 the prince what a ruler should do to win respect 89 planninganddoinggreatthings,keepinghispeopleinastate regard to this invitation to remain neutral, nothing could be ofsuspenseandadmiration,concentratedastheywereonthe more damaging to your interests: you’ll get no thanks, no outcome of his various campaigns.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
