In 1471, Sixtus IV became pope. He was known for favoring his family and, in 1478, took part in a plot called the Pazzi conspiracy to remove the Medici family from power in Florence.

After the failed attempt to kill Lorenzo the Magnificent and the execution of the attackers, Sixtus punished Lorenzo by cutting him off from the church and declaring war on Florence with Naples. Sixtus’s nephew, Giuliano della Rovere, later became Pope Julius II in 1503.

Francesco Sforza, a powerful soldier for hire, married Bianca Maria, the daughter of the Duke of Milan, in 1441. After the duke died in 1447, the people of Milan declared a republic instead of making Sforza the new duke.

Sforza first fought for the republic against Venice but then betrayed it and made himself duke in 1450.

Pierro Soderini was chosen as the leader of Florence for life in 1502. He was friends with Machiavelli and helped his career, but Machiavelli later thought he was weak and stopped trusting him. Soderini kept an alliance with France but wasn’t a strong leader. When the French were kicked out of Italy by a group called the Holy League, Soderini tried to stop the Spanish army but had to run away when they took over and the Medici returned to power.

Giacomo (Muzio) Attendolo, called Sforza because he was strong and determined, was the father of Francesco Sforza. He joined a mercenary army in the 1380s and often fought against another soldier called Braccio da Montone. He died while serving the queen of Naples.

Ludovico Sforza, the second son of Francesco, became duke of Milan from 1494 to 1500. After his older brother was killed in 1476 and his nephew was still a child, Ludovico took control of Milan. He helped the French king Charles VIII claim the throne of Naples and encouraged the French invasion of Italy in 1494.

Later, Ludovico joined the League of Venice, an alliance against France, which pushed the French out of Italy. In 1499, he lost Milan to the new French king, Louis XII, but briefly took it back in 1500. Eventually, he was defeated and imprisoned by the French until he died in 1508. Ludovico is also known for supporting Leonardo da Vinci.

Antonio da Venafro helped Pandolfo Petrucci become the ruler of Siena and became his main adviser. He was trusted with important missions and worked in Rome and other courts. In 1502, he was involved in a betrayal against Cesare Borgia’s mercenaries. After Petrucci’s family lost power in 1516, Antonio returned to his hometown of Venafro and later worked for the government of Naples, where he died.

Bernabo Visconti ruled Milan with his two brothers from 1354 to 1385.
