Hehadno way of keeping the initial believers on board or forcing the scepticaltoseethelight.Butanynewrulerbringinginchanges States won by lucky circumstance will have to deal with huge obstacles and dangers, mostly in and someone else’s armed forces the early stages, and must overcome them with his own abilities. Once he’s done that and eliminated those who resented his achievements, so that people start to respect and admire him, then he can enjoy his power in safety and will live honoured and fulfilled.
 
 I’ve mentioned four exceptional leaders but now I want to Aprivatecitizenwhobecomesaruleroutofsheergoodluck bring in a lesser man, Hiero of Syracuse, who nevertheless needn’t make much effort to take his state but will have to hadsomeofthesamequalitiesastheothersandwillserveas sweat if he is to hold on to it. He has no trouble climbing on an example of a whole category. Originally an ordinary tohispedestal,sinceheisliftedthere;butassoonasheisup citizen, Hiero became King of Syracuse. Once again the only on top, there will be any number of problems. I’m talking luck he had lay in the initial situation: under threat from aboutsituationswheresomeonebuysaterritorywithmoney, Carthage, the Syracusans elected him as their military com- or is simply granted it as a favour. This was the case with manderandhewassosuccessfultheythenmadehimking.In quiteafewrulersofcitiesinIoniaandtheHellespont:Darius fact,evenasaprivatecitizenhewassocapablethatonewriter gave them their thrones so that they would govern with his saidofhim:‘Hehadallittakestobeakingexceptakingdom.’ security and prestige in mind. Another example is those Hiero disbanded the existing army and mustered a new one. emperorswhostartedoutasprivatecitizensandrosetopower Hebrokeoffoldalliancesandmadenewones;thatway,with by bribing the army.
 
 his own soldiers and his own allies to support him, he had These men rely entirely on the support and continuing laid the foundation for building whatever he wanted. So it successofthepeoplewhogavethemtheirpower,whichisto cost him considerable effort to establish his power, but very sayontwoextremelyunreliableandunstablequantities.They little to hold on to it. don’t know how to hang on to power and even if they did, they wouldn’t be able to. They don’t know how because, unless they are remarkably gifted and competent, we can hardly suppose that their lives as private citizens have equipped them for command. They won’t be able to in any event because they don’t possess an army that can be relied on to stay friendly and loyal. Like anything that appears suddenly and grows fast, regimes that come out of nothing inevitably have shallow roots and will tend to crash in the firststorm.Unlessofcoursethemanwhoissuddenlymadea 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 24 28/05/2015 14:14 24 the prince to Girolamo Savonarola: he was overthrown along with all 7 hisreformswhenpeoplestoppedbelievinginhim.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
