You can see the country is praying to God to send someone to save her from the cruelty and harshness of foreigners. You can see she is ready and willing to fight for Italy and free it from foreign control, if only someone would raise a flag to lead her.

What I can’t see is any family the country could trust right now except your famous house. It is blessed with good qualities and wealth, favored by God and the Church—actually running the Church—and so well placed to lead Italy to freedom. If you think about the lives and achievements of the men I’ve mentioned, then the task won’t be too hard. They were great men, but still just men, and none had a better chance than you do now. Their challenges were no easier, and God was no kinder to them than He has been to you.

Justice is definitely on your side because “war is just when there is no other choice, and weapons are sacred when they are your only hope.” Many things show that a new leader’s time has come, and I don’t think there’s ever been a better moment than now. If, as I said before, Moses could only appear after the people of Israel were slaves in Egypt, and Cyrus showed his greatness after the Persians were defeated by the Medes, and Theseus proved himself after the Athenians were beaten and scattered, then today, with Italy reduced to a worse state than those people—more enslaved, more crushed, more divided, leaderless, lawless, beaten, plundered, broken, and ruined—this is the time for a great leader.

God has shown us amazing signs: the sea has parted; a cloud has led the way for you; water has come from stone; manna has rained from heaven. Everything has come together to make you great. The rest is up to you. God doesn’t do everything himself; He wants us to use our free will and share in the glory.

There was one man who showed signs of greatness, the kind of thing that made you think he was sent by God to save the country, but his luck ran out at the height of his success. Now Italy lies half-dead, waiting for someone to heal her wounds and stop the suffering from the war in Lombardy, the high taxes in Tuscany and Naples, and the problems that have lasted too long.

It’s no surprise if none of the Italians I’ve talked about have been able to do what I believe your family can do. But if our recent wars and revolutions have made it seem like the country can’t fight anymore, that’s because the old governments were poorly organized and no one knew how to fix things. Nothing brings more honor than cleaning up these problems and leading Italy to freedom.
