But he didn’t last long. Two things made people hate and fear him. First, he came from a very low background—he used to be a shepherd in Thrace, and everyone knew it, which they thought was shameful. Second, when he became emperor, he didn’t go to Rome for the official ceremony. Instead, he got a bad reputation for being extremely cruel by ordering his officials in Rome and across the empire to do terrible things.

Everyone hated him because of where he came from and how fierce he was. He faced rebellions first in Africa, then in the Senate. The Senate rebellion had the full support of the people of Rome. Then the whole of Italy worked against him, and finally his own army got involved. They were attacking the city of Aquileia and having a hard time. They were also tired of his cruelty, and when they saw how many enemies he had, they stopped being afraid and killed him.

But let’s get back to the main point. Anyone thinking about this will see that hatred or dislike caused these Roman emperors to fall. Some acted one way, some another, but both groups had successes and failures. Since these emperors took power instead of inheriting it, it was dangerous for Pertinax and Alexander to try to copy Marcus Aurelius, who got power because he was born into it. Also, because they didn’t have the right qualities, it was a big mistake for Caracalla, Commodus, and Maximinus to try to be like Severus.

If a man takes power to start a new rule, he can’t act like Marcus Aurelius. But that doesn’t mean he has to be like Severus either. What he should learn from Severus are the rules for starting a state, and from Marcus Aurelius the rules that keep it stable and respected once it’s strong.

I made an exception for the Turkish leader because he has a big army with 12,000 foot soldiers and 15,000 horse soldiers right with him. Since he depends on them for his power and safety, he has to think about keeping them happy above everything else. Egypt is similar in this way; it’s like the papal state, which isn’t a regular monarchy you inherit. When the old ruler dies, a new leader is chosen by a group with the power to do that. Because their system is well set up, it’s not like a new ruler taking over a state from scratch. A pope or Egyptian sultan doesn’t face the usual problems new rulers do because the state’s institutions are already there to work for them like they would for a king.

Today, rulers don’t have to give the army the same priority as Roman emperors did. Sure, they still need to pay attention to the army, but the problem is easier now because modern rulers don’t have to deal with armies that have lots of experience running the government and provinces like the Roman army did. Back then, emperors had to put their armies first because the armies were stronger. But now, except for Turkish and Egyptian rulers, it’s more important to care about the people because they are more powerful.

If today’s rulers don’t have their own armies, they have to use mercenaries, and those come with all the problems I talked about before.
