Add reckonedtheyneededabitintheirmouthstoreinthemback.
 
 to all that the good will of the people and it’s extremely He also knew how much the people hated and feared the unlikelythatanyonewillbesocrazyastostartaconspiracy. nobles and he wanted to protect them. But it was important Because,whileingeneralaconspiratorhasmosttofearprior that the king shouldn’t be personally responsible for doing to the coup, in this case, with the people against him, he’s thissincethenhemightbeblamedbythenoblesforfavouring goingtobeindangerafterwardstooandthefactthathe’sseen the people or by the people for favouring the nobles. So he offtherulerdoesn’tmeanhecanexpecttoescapeunscathed. introducedanindependentbody,parliament,thatcouldkeep I could give infinite examples of this but let’s make do the nobles in their place and protect the people without the with just one that happened in our fathers’ times. Annibale king’s being responsible. There really couldn’t be a better or Bentivogli,grandfatherofthepresentAnnibale,wasDukeof more sensible institution, nor one more conducive to the Bologna when the Canneschis conspired against him and securityofthekingandtherealm.Thispromptsthefollowing killedhim.AtthatpointtheonlysurvivingBentivogliwashis reflection: that a ruler must get others to carry out policies son,Giovanni,whowasstillababy.Allthesame,immediately thatwillprovokeprotest,keepingthosethatinspiregratitude after the murder, the people rose up and killed all the Can- to himself. In conclusion, let me repeat that a ruler should neschis.ThiswasbecausetheBentivoglifamilywasextremely respect the nobles but must make sure he is not hated by the popularatthetime.Infact,whentheBologneserealizedthat people.
 
 withAnnibaledeadtherewerenofamilymemberscapableof Perhaps many readers familiar with the fate of certain rulingthetown,theywenttoFlorencetogetamanwhowas Romanemperorswillfeelthattheirexamplescontradictthese supposedly a Bentivogli, though until shortly before that he opinions of mine, in that they consistently behaved well and hadpassedhimselfoffasthesonofablacksmith;theyasked showed great character but nevertheless lost their empire or himtogovernBolognaandhedulydidsountilGiovanniwas eventheirlivesatthehandsofsubjectswhoconspiredagainst old enough to take over. them. To meet these objections, I shall consider the qualities My conclusion, then, is that so long as he has the people of some of these emperors, showing how the causes of their on his side a ruler needn’t worry about conspiracies, but downfall are not at all out of line with my reasoning above, when they are against him and hate him he’ll have to watch and bringing into the argument some of the context that everyone’s every move. Sensible rulers and well-run states historians of the period consider important. I hope it will be have always done all they can not to drive the nobles to enough to take all the emperors who held power from the despair and to keep the people happy and satisfied; indeed philosopher Marcus Aurelius down to Maximinus, which is this is one of a ruler’s most important tasks. tosay:Marcus,hissonCommodus,Pertinax,Julian,Severus, Oneofthebetterorganizedandwell-governedstatesinour Antoninus Caracalla his son, Macrinus, Heliogabalus, own times is France. It is full of good institutions which Alexander and Maximinus.
 
 guaranteetheking’ssecurityandfreedomofaction.Themost The first thing to note is that, while in other states a ruler importantoftheseisparliamentandparliamentaryauthority. has only to guard against the ambition of the nobles and 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 75 28/05/2015 14:14 76 the prince avoiding contempt and hatred 77 the disrespect of the people, Roman emperors faced a third Commodusthesoldiershadgotusedtoadegeneratelifestyle hazard: the greed and cruelty of the army.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
