It’s only spending your own money that puts you at risk.
 
 17 Nothingconsumesitselfsomuchasgenerosity,becausewhile youpractiseityou’relosingthewherewithaltogoonpractising it. Either you fall into poverty and are despised for it, or, Cruelty and compassion. Whether it’s to avoid poverty, you become grasping and hateful. Above better to be feared or loved all else a king must guard against being despised and hated.
 
 Generosity leads to both. It’s far more sensible to keep a reputation for meanness, which carries a stigma but doesn’t rousepeople’shatred,thantostrivetobeseenasgenerousand find at the end of the day that you’re thought of as grasping, somethingthatcarriesastigmaandgetsyouhatedtoo. Continuing with our list of qualities, I’m sure every leader would wish to be seen as compassionate rather than cruel.
 
 All the same he must be careful not to use his compassion unwisely. Cesare Borgia was thought to be cruel, yet his cruelty restored order to Romagna and united it, making the region peaceful and loyal. When you think about it, he was much more compassionate than the Florentines whose reluctance to be thought cruel led to disaster in Pistoia. A ruler mustn’tworryaboutbeinglabelledcruelwhenit’saquestion of keeping his subjects loyal and united; using a little exemplary severity, he will prove more compassionate than the leader whose excessive compassion leads to public disorder, muggings and murder. That kind of trouble tends to harm everyone, while the death sentences that a ruler hands out affect only the individuals involved. But of all rulers, a man new to power simply cannot avoid a reputation for cruelty, sinceanewlyconqueredstateisaverydangerousplace.Virgil puts these words in Queen Dido’s mouth: Thedifficultsituationandthenewnessofmykingdom Forcemetodothesethings,andguardmyborderseverywhere.* *Resdura,etregninovitasmetaliacogunt Moliri,etlatefinescustodetueri.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 64 28/05/2015 14:14 64 the prince it.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
