previously self-governing If we go back now to the Kingdom of Darius, we’ll find that it was of the Turkish variety. So Alexander first had to defeatitsentirearmyandgetcontrolofthecountry;butonce he’ddonethat,andonceDariuswasdead,hewassecurelyin command for the reasons cited above. And if his successors had been united they could have run the region without any When the states you invade have been accustomed to govworries;infacttheonlytroublewastheinfightingtheystarted erning themselves without a monarch and living in freedom themselves.ButstatesorganizedtheFrenchwaycanneverbe under their own laws, then there are three ways of holding held so easily. The frequent uprisings against Roman power on to them: the first is to reduce them to rubble; the second in Spain, Gaul and Greece, for example, were the result of is to go and live there yourself; the third is to let them go on those regions’ being internally divided into so many princi- living under their own laws, make them pay you a tax and palities. So long as people remembered their old loyalties to install a government of just a few local people to keep the local lords, Rome was never in complete control. But once state as a whole friendly. Since this government has been set thepowerandpermanenceofempirehadextinguishedthose upbytheinvadingruler,itsmembersknowtheycan’tsurvive loyalties, then Rome became the undisputed master of the withouthissupportandwilldoeverythingtheycantodefend region. In fact, when the Romans started fighting among his authority. Once you’ve decided not to destroy it, the best themselves, each warring commander was able to bring the way to hold a previously self-governing city is with the help province he was running into the conflict on his side, since of its own citizens.
 
 once the families of the old local rulers had been eliminated Let’stakeourexamplesfromSpartaandRome.TheSpartans theonlyauthoritypeoplerecognizedwasRome’srepresenta- held Athens and Thebes by setting up governments run by a tive. When you take all this into account, it’s really not sur- few local people, but in the end they lost these towns. The prising how easy it was for Alexander to hold Asia, nor how RomansrazedCapua,CarthageandNumantiatotheground harditwasformanyothers,Pyrrhusforexample,toholdon and that way held on to them. They tried to hold Greece totheterritoriestheytook.Itwasn’taquestionoftheabilities in much the same way the Spartans had, granting it selfof each particular conqueror, but of the different kinds of government and leaving it its own laws, but it didn’t work state they had invaded. andeventuallytheywereforcedtodestroyquiteanumberof cities so as to keep hold of the region as a whole.
 
 The truth is that the only sure way to hold such places is to destroy them. If you conquer a city accustomed to selfgovernment and opt not to destroy it you can expect it to 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 19 28/05/2015 14:14 20 the prince destroy you.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
