It’s normal that when you try to avoid one danger, you might run into another. Being smart means knowing how to figure out the risks and pick the lesser evil.

A ruler should also show that he respects people who do great work. He should give jobs to talented people and reward those who are really good at what they do. Also, he should make sure his people feel safe doing their jobs, like being merchants, farmers, or working in other trades. They shouldn’t worry about losing their money or getting unfairly taxed if they try to start a business.

Choosing the right ministers is very important for a ruler. The ministers show if the ruler is smart or not, and they give people the first idea of how the ruler is doing his job. If the ministers are good and loyal, people will think the ruler is clever because he picked the right people to help him. But if the ministers are bad, people will always have a reason to complain, and that’s usually the ruler’s fault.

A ruler should also respect different groups in the city and visit their meetings sometimes, showing that he cares but still keeps his authority. He should also hold fun events like shows and festivals when the time is right.

Everyone who knew Antonio da Venafro, who was Pandolfo Petrucci’s minister in Siena, thought Pandolfo was very smart for choosing him.

There are three types of minds: one that understands things on its own, one that understands what others have figured out, and one that understands nothing at all. The first kind is very valuable, the second is useful, and the third is useless. Pandolfo didn’t have the first kind, but he had the second. If someone is smart enough to see what’s right or wrong in what another person says and does, even if they can’t come up with ideas themselves, they can still support the good plans and fix the bad ones. The minister will also know he can’t trick the ruler and will have to behave well.

One sure way to know if a minister is good is to see if he thinks only about himself. If a minister’s plans are all about helping himself, he won’t be a good minister, and you won’t be able to trust him.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
