Myopiniononthematteristhis: drop it. So when the time comes for the cautious man to act it’sbettertobeimpulsivethancautious;fortuneisfemaleand impulsively,hecan’t,andhecomesunstuck.Ifhedidchange ifyouwanttostayontopofheryouhavetoslapandthrust.
 
 personality in line with times and circumstances, his luck You’llseeshe’smorelikelytoyieldthatwaythantomenwho would hold steady. go about her coldly. And being a woman she likes her men Pope Julius II always acted impulsively and lived in times young,becausethey’renotsocagey,they’rewilderandmore andcircumstancessowellsuitedtothisapproachthatthings daring when they master her.
 
 always went well for him. Think of his first achievement, taking Bologna while Giovanni Bentivoglio was still alive.
 
 The Venetians were against the idea, the King of Spain likewise, and Julius was still negotiating the matter with the French.Allthesame,andwithhisusualferocityandimpetuousness,thepopesetoutandledtheexpeditionhimself.This put the Venetians and Spanish in a quandary and they were unable to react, the Venetians out of fear and the Spanish because they hoped to recover the whole of the Kingdom of Naples. Meanwhile, the King of France was brought on board:heneededRomeasanallytochecktheVenetiansand decidedthatonceJuliushadmadehismovehecouldn’tdeny him armed support without too obviously slighting him.
 
 With this impulsive decision, then, Julius achieved more than any other pope with all the good sense in the world would ever have achieved. Had he waited to have everything arranged and negotiated before leaving Rome, as any other pope would have done, the plan would never have worked.
 
 TheKingofFrancewouldhavecomeupwithendlessexcuses andtheVenetiansandSpanishwithendlesswarnings.Idon’t wanttogointoJulius’sothercampaigns,whichwereallofa kindandallsuccessful.Hisearlydeathsparedhimtheexperience of failure. Because if times had changed and circumstancesdemandedcaution,hewouldhavebeenfinished.The man would never have changed his ways, because they were natural to him.
 
 Toconcludethen:fortunevariesbutmengoonregardless.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 101 28/05/2015 14:14 an appeal to conquer italy and free it 103 Tuscany and Naples, who will clean up the sores that have 26 festered too long.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
