Circumstances were such at the time that no 21 foreign enemies were in a position to help the people. Later, however, her fortresses were not much use when Cesare Borgia attacked the town, and the people, who were hostile What a ruler should do to win respect to her, fought on his side. Both then and earlier she would have been safer had she avoided making an enemy of the people rather than counting on fortresses. All things considered, I’ll give my approval both to rulers who build fortresses and to those who don’t, but I’ll always criticize any rulerwhoimaginesitdoesn’tmatterwhetherthepeoplehate him or not and trusts in fortresses for his security. Nothing wins a ruler respect like great military victories and a display of remarkable personal qualities. One example in our own times is Ferdinand of Aragon, the present King of Spain.Onemightalmostdescribehimasarulernewtopower because from being a weak king he has become the most famous and honoured of Christendom, and when you look at his achievements you find they are all remarkable and someof themextraordinary. Atthebeginning ofhis reignhe launched an invasion of Granada, a campaign that laid the foundation of his power. It was important that he did it at a moment of domestic quiet when he didn’t have to worry about possible interruptions: the war then kept the Castilian barons busy so that they didn’t start plotting changes inside Spain. Meanwhile, and without their even noticing, Ferdinand’spowerandreputationwereincreasingattheirexpense.
 
 Supplying his armies with money from the Church and the people,hewasabletosustainalongwarthatallowedhimto establish, then consolidate, a military force that would do him proud in the future. After that was done, to ensure the Church’s support for even larger campaigns, he perpetrated an act of cruelty dressed up as piety, stripping the Marrano Jews oftheir wealthand expellingthem fromhis kingdom,a movethatcouldhardlyhavebeenmoredistressingorstriking.
 
 Once again under cover of religion, he attacked Africa, then movedintoItalyandfinallyattackedFrance.Sohewasalways 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 87 28/05/2015 14:14 88 the prince what a ruler should do to win respect 89 planninganddoinggreatthings,keepinghispeopleinastate regard to this invitation to remain neutral, nothing could be ofsuspenseandadmiration,concentratedastheywereonthe more damaging to your interests: you’ll get no thanks, no outcome of his various campaigns.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
