In 197 BC, he preached with passion but was kept inside Macedonia’s borders. He was against all kinds of corruption in the Church and wanted to return to true religious teachings. Because of this, Pope Alexander VI excommunicated him. When he lost support in Florence, he was arrested, tortured, and burned at the stake in the town square.

Philopoemen (253–183 BC) was a Greek leader and general who fought many battles with the Achaean army.

Pyrrhus (318–272 BC) was the King of Epirus and a very successful military leader. He was a constant threat to the Romans in southern Italy and Sicily, where he also fought the Carthaginians. His costly win at the Battle of Asculum in 279 BC led to the saying "Pyrrhic victory," meaning a win that costs too much.

Giorgio Scali was one of the leaders of the Ciompi (wool-workers) rebellion in Florence in 1378. He tried to stop officials from punishing a friend but was arrested and beheaded in 1382.

Romulus is the legendary founder and first king of Rome.

Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus (around 234–183 BC) was a Roman general famous for defeating Hannibal at the Battle of Zama in 201 BC. This important victory earned him the name "Africanus." After being accused of taking bribes, he retired to his home on the coast of Campania.

Georges d’Amboise (1460–1510) was a cardinal and later Archbishop of Rouen. He was an adviser to the Duke of Orleans, who became King Louis XII of France. Louis made d’Amboise prime minister and convinced Pope Alexander VI to make him a cardinal to help improve relations between France and the pope. D’Amboise supported Louis’s actions in Italy and worked with Cesare Borgia to try to get himself elected pope after Alexander VI died.

Lucius Septimius Severus (146–211) was a Roman emperor known for making the Roman government more military-focused. After serving under earlier emperors, he took control of Rome in 193 AD following the murder of Emperor Pertinax. He defeated rivals who claimed to be emperor and spent his last years fighting in Britain, where he died in 211.

Giuliano de’ Rovere became Pope Julius II.

Cardinal Raffaello Riario of Savona was a mercenary leader who fought for Venice in 1482 and died in battle in 1487.

Saul was the first king of Israel, chosen by the people around 1025 BC.

Girolamo Savonarola (1452–1498) was born in Ferrara and studied philosophy and medicine before becoming a Dominican friar. He first preached in Florence from 1482 to 1487 but was mostly ignored. Then, on the advice of the Humanist Pico della Mirandola, the powerful Lorenzo de’ Medici called him back to Florence in 1490 to lead the monastery of San Marco. Savonarola gave sermons criticizing corruption in the city and warned of doom and foreign invasion.

When Charles VIII invaded Italy in 1494 and the Medici family fled, Savonarola’s preaching gained support. He became the leader of Florence from 1494 to 1498 and pushed people to burn anything sinful, like certain books and paintings, in what became known as the Bonfire of the Vanities.

Ascanio Sforza (1455–1505) was the fifth child of Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan, and brother to two other dukes. He became a cardinal in 1484 and tried several times to become pope but failed. He worked as a spy for Milan in Rome but lost power when Alexander VI helped the French invade Milan in 1494. Ascanio was imprisoned by the French for three years but later got some power back before losing his base again when the French took Milan under King Louis XII.
