In 1471, a man named Sixtus IV became pope. Sixtus was known for helping his family get important jobs, which is called nepotism. In 1478, he joined a plan called the Pazzi conspiracy to take down the Medici family in Florence. After the plan failed and the people who tried to kill Lorenzo il Magnifico were executed, Sixtus got mad. He kicked Lorenzo out of the church and put Florence under strict rules. He also teamed up with Naples to start a war against Florence. Sixtus’s nephew, Giuliano della Rovere, later became Pope Julius II in 1503.

Francesco Sforza was a very successful soldier for hire, or mercenary, in his time. He fought for Filippo Visconti, the Duke of Milan, and was expected to become duke after Visconti died in 1447. But the people of Milan declared their city a republic instead. Sforza first fought for the republic against Venice but then betrayed them and made himself duke in 1450. He married Visconti’s daughter, Bianca Maria, in 1441 to keep his power.

Piero Soderini was chosen as the leader of Florence in 1502 and stayed in charge for life. He was friends with Machiavelli and helped him get started, but Machiavelli later thought Soderini wasn’t a strong leader and stopped respecting him. Like Savonarola before him, Soderini kept an alliance with France while he was in charge. However, he wasn’t very skilled in politics and had no strong support when the French were pushed out of Italy. In 1512, Soderini tried to stop the Spanish from taking over the city of Prato but had to run away when they won, and the Medici family returned to power.

Giacomo (Muzio) Attendolo was the father of Francesco Sforza and a famous mercenary leader. He joined the army of Alberigo da Barbiano in the 1380s and got the nickname “Sforza” because of his strength and determination. He often fought against another mercenary named Braccio da Montone. Giacomo died while working for Joanna of Naples.

Ludovico Sforza was the second son of Francesco Sforza and became Duke of Milan from 1494 to 1500. When Ludovico’s older brother, Galeazzo Maria, was killed in 1476, the power went to Galeazzo’s young son, but Ludovico took control. He supported the French king Charles VIII when he tried to take Naples in 1494. Later, Ludovico joined a group called the League of Venice to push the French out of Italy. Unfortunately, in 1499, Ludovico lost Milan to the French again. He briefly won it back in 1500 but was defeated and imprisoned until he died in 1508. He is mostly remembered for supporting the artist Leonardo da Vinci.

Titus Quintius Flaminius was a Roman general who fought against Philip V of Macedonia around 200 BC. He won an important battle in Greece and forced Philip to leave most of his conquered lands, although Philip still kept his kingdom in Macedonia.

Antonio da Venafro was an important advisor in Siena. He helped a man named Pandolfo Petrucci become the ruler of the city and worked on important missions to Rome and other courts. In 1502, Antonio was involved in a plot against Cesare Borgia. After Petrucci’s family lost power in 1516, Antonio went back to his hometown Venafro and later worked for the government in Naples, where he died.

Bernabo Visconti ruled Milan with his two brothers from 1354 to 1385.
