Hannibal (247–182 BC) was the son of Hamilcar. He led Carthaginian forces starting in 221 BC. Hannibal took an army, including war elephants, across the Iberian Peninsula, over the Pyrenees and Alps, and into northern Italy. This became known as the Second Punic War. Even though he won some big battles, he had to go back home when the Romans attacked Carthage. He was finally beaten at the Battle of Zama in 201 BC by Scipio Africanus. After that, he worked as the chief leader in Carthage and made many changes, but the Romans forced him into exile. To avoid getting caught by the Romans, he poisoned himself.

Marcus Didius Julianus (c.133–193) was made emperor by the Praetorian Guard after they killed Pertinax. However, he only ruled for sixty-six days before he was murdered. Septimius Severus, who didn’t accept Julianus as leader, came to Rome and took over.

Pope Julius II (1443–1513) was made pope in 1503 after Pius III died. Julius had been a strong rival of Alexander VI and was not supportive of Alexander’s son, Cesare Borgia. Julius quickly took down the Borgia family’s power and worked to end the fight between two major Roman families, the Orsini and Colonna. After securing his power in Rome, he took back church lands in the Romagna area, fought the Venetians, and took over cities like Perugia and Bologna in 1506. This gave the pope a lot of power. In 1508, he formed the League of Cambrai with France, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire to kick the Venetians out of Romagna. But after the Venetians were defeated in 1509, Julius worried about French control and teamed up with Venice to drive Louis XII out of Italy. Julius was also a big supporter of art. He laid the first stone of St. Peter’s Basilica in 1506 and asked Michelangelo to paint the Sistine Chapel ceiling.

Heliogabalus (c.203–222) was Roman emperor from 218 to 222. He was the grandson of the aunt of the murdered emperor Caracalla. Some people said he was Caracalla’s illegitimate son. He became emperor after Macrinus was killed. Heliogabalus tried to change Roman religious traditions and acted in ways people thought were strange. He married five times before he was 18. Because of this and other issues, he was killed and replaced by his cousin Severus Alexander.

Hiero II was king of Syracuse from 270 to 215 BC. He was the illegitimate son of a nobleman and once served with Pyrrhus. Hiero became commander of Syracuse’s forces when Pyrrhus left in 275 BC and was later elected ruler after defeating the Mamertines. After losing a war with Rome, he made a deal with them in 263 BC to keep his kingdom safe in exchange for helping Rome fight Carthage. Hiero was related to Archimedes, who made many military inventions. Hiero supported Archimedes’ work.

Leo X (Giovanni de’ Medici, 1475–1521) became a cardinal when he was 13 and was elected pope in 1513. His time as pope is remembered for selling indulgences to pay for building St. Peter’s Basilica, promoting his Medici family, and responding to Martin Luther’s complaints against indulgences. In 1513, Leo teamed up with Venice and other powers to drive the French out of Italy but later switched sides and worked with the French against the Holy Roman Empire.

Joanna II (1373–1435) ruled Naples from 1414 to 1435. She didn’t have children and let her court be controlled by her favorites and lovers. She played the Anjou and Aragon families against each other by offering their members the chance to succeed her. The fight between these royal families led to her throne being controlled by others.

Louis XI (1423–1483) was king of France from 1461 to 1483. He made the king stronger compared to the barons and added more control to the kingdom.
