But he didn’t last long. Two things made people hate and fear him. First, his very low background: he had been a shepherd in Thrace—everyone knew this and thought it was scandalous. Second, when he became emperor, he put off going to Rome for the formal ceremony and got a reputation for being extremely cruel by ordering his officials in Rome and all over the empire to commit many terrible acts.

Everyone hated him because of his low birth, and they feared how fierce he was. He faced rebellions first in Africa, then in the Senate. The Senate rebellion had the full support of the people of Rome. Then all of Italy plotted against him, and finally his own army got involved. They were laying siege to Aquileia and things were tough. They were also fed up with his cruelty, and when they saw how many enemies he had, they stopped being afraid and killed him.

But let’s get back to our discussion. Anyone thinking about this will see that hatred or contempt caused the downfall of these Roman emperors. They will also understand how, while some rulers acted one way and some another, there were successes and failures in both groups. Since these rulers had taken power instead of inheriting it, it was pointless and dangerous for Pertinax and Alexander to try to copy Marcus Aurelius, who had inherited his position. Also, because they didn’t have the right qualities, it was a big mistake for Caracalla, Commodus, and Maximinus to try to act like Severus.

If a man has seized power and is setting up a new monarchy, he can’t copy someone like Marcus Aurelius. That doesn’t mean he has to act like Severus either. What he should learn from Severus are the policies needed to start a state, and from Marcus Aurelius the policies that bring stability and success once the state is well established.

The reason emperors had to focus on their armies before the people was that the armies were more powerful. Today, it’s more important for rulers (except for Turkish and Egyptian leaders) to care about the people first because the people are more powerful than armies now.

I’ve made an exception for the Turkish leader because he keeps an army of 12,000 foot soldiers and 15,000 horse soldiers close by. Since he depends on them for the strength and safety of his kingdom, he has to keep them happy first. In the same way, Egypt is unique and similar to the papal state—it’s not a hereditary monarchy or a new monarchy. When an old ruler dies, he is not replaced by one of his children, but a new leader is chosen by a special group. Because the state’s institutions are well established, this situation is very different from when a new ruler takes over a state, and actually a pope or Egyptian sultan doesn’t face the same problems that a new ruler usually does. Even if he is new to power, the institutions are old and set up to work for him as if he were a king who inherited his position.
