When we look closely at why this happens, especially during peacetime, it’s easier to keep control over people. History shows us that it’s much easier to gain support from those who were okay with the old government. These people might even team up with you to help take over the country.

Rulers become great by facing and beating the challenges and enemies in their way. So, when fate wants to make a new ruler great—someone who isn’t born into power but has to build their reputation—it creates enemies who want to attack him. This gives the ruler a chance to defeat them and rise higher. Many smart rulers even start fights on purpose so they can prove themselves by winning.

One way rulers keep their power is by building forts. These forts stop enemies from attacking and give a safe place if there’s a sudden attack. I think building forts is smart because it has been done for hundreds of years. For example, Niccolo Vitelli knocked down two forts in Città di Castello to hold the town better. When Guidobaldo took back his land after Cesare Borgia’s rule, he destroyed every fort so he wouldn’t lose control again. The Bentivoglio family did the same thing when they returned to power in Bologna.

But whether forts are helpful or not depends on the situation. Sometimes they’re useful, and sometimes they cause problems. Here’s the main idea: if a ruler is more scared of his own people than enemies from other countries, he should build forts. But if he’s more afraid of foreign enemies, he might be better off without them. For example, Francesco Sforza’s fort in Milan caused more rebellions than anything else.

The best way for a ruler to protect himself is not to be hated by the people. Even if you have forts, they won’t save you if the people want to fight you. Once people decide to rebel, they’ll find help from outside, no matter what.

If a new ruler takes over a place with the help of locals, he should think hard about why those people helped him. If they didn’t really like the new ruler but just wanted to get rid of the old one, they will be hard to keep loyal. The new ruler probably can’t give them everything they want, so they’ll be demanding and tricky to handle.

There are very few recent examples of forts being really useful. One exception is Caterina Sforza, Countess of Forlì. When her husband was killed, she hid in the fortress, survived the rebel attack, waited for help from Milan, and then took back control.
