The people needed a little more support in their town, especially in the back areas.

The king also knew how much the people hated and feared the nobles, and he wanted to protect both groups. But it was important that the king didn’t have to take the blame for tough decisions. If he did, the nobles might accuse him of favoring the people, and the people might think he was siding with the nobles. So, he created a separate group called parliament to keep the nobles in check and protect the people without the king being responsible.

There couldn’t be a better or smarter way to keep the king and the kingdom safe. This shows that a ruler needs to get others to handle unpopular policies while keeping the people happy with him.

For example, a long time ago, Annibale Bentivogli, the grandfather of the current Annibale, was duke of Bologna when a group called the Canneschis plotted against him and killed him. Only his baby son Giovanni was left alive. Right after this, the people got really angry and killed all the Canneschis because the Bentivogli family was very popular.

With Annibale dead, no family members could run the town, so the people went to Florence to find a man who claimed to be a Bentivogli, even though he had pretended to be the son of a blacksmith. They asked him to govern Bologna until Giovanni was old enough, and he did.

My point is, as long as a ruler has the people on his side, he doesn’t need to worry about conspiracies. But if the people hate him, he has to be very careful and watch every move he makes.

Good rulers and well-run countries always try not to upset the nobles too much and work to keep the people happy. This is one of the most important jobs of a leader.

One of the best-run countries today is France. It has strong institutions that protect the king and give him freedom to act. The most important of these is the parliament.

In other places, rulers have to be careful about nobles getting too ambitious or dangerous, but if the king has the support of the government, laws, and friends, he’s protected from these threats.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
