Sure,they’rehappy Different kinds of armies and a to be your soldiers while you’re not at war, but when war consideration of mercenary forces comes, they run for it, or just disappear.
 
 It shouldn’t be hard to convince the reader of this, since Italy’s present ruin has been caused precisely by a prolonged dependence on mercenaries. It’s true that mercenary forces did win some battles and seemed courageous when fighting other mercenaries; but as soon as a foreign army turned up Now that I’ve given a detailed account of the characteristics we saw what they were made of: Charles, King of France, of the states I set out to talk about, and examined to some didn’t even have to fight; his men just put chalk crosses on extent the reasons for their being powerful or weak and the thebuildingstheyplannedtouseasbillets.WhenSavonarola ways people in the past have tried to take and to hold them, said we brought this on ourselves with our own sins, he was I shalloffer amore generaldiscussion ofthe meansof attack right; except the sins were not what he was thinking of, but and defence available to each kind of state. We’ve already the ones I’ve been talking about. And because they were our saidthataruler’spowermustbebasedonsolidfoundations; rulers’ sins, it was our rulers who paid the price.
 
 otherwisehe’sboundtofall.Andthemainfoundationsofany I’dliketoofferabetterexplanationofwhymercenariesare state,whetheritbenew,orold,oranewterritoryacquiredby notagoodidea.Amercenarycommandermayormaynotbe an old regime, are good laws and good armed forces. And anexcellentmilitaryleader:ifheis,youcan’ttrusthimbecause sinceyoucan’thavegoodlawsifyoudon’thavegoodarmed hewillalwaysaspiretopowerhimself,eitherbyattackingyou, forces, while if you have good armed forces good laws inevi- hispaymaster,orbyattackingothersagainstyourwishes;but tably follow, I’ll leave aside a discussion of the law and go ifheisn’tacapableleader,he’llruinyouanyway.Andifsomestraight to the question of the army. one objects that it hardly matters who commands the army Now,thearmiesarulerisdependingontodefendhisstate sincecommandersalwaysbehavelikethis,whethermercenary willeitherbehisown,ormercenaries,orauxiliaries,orsome orno,myresponseisasfollows:armedforcesarealwaysatthe combinationofthese.Mercenariesandauxiliariesareuseless service of a hereditary ruler or a republic. A ruler must go in anddangerous.Ifyouarecountingonmercenariestodefend personand act as commander himself; a republic must send yourstateyouwillneverbestableorsecure,becausemercen- its citizens; if it sends a man who turns out to be no good it aries are ambitious, undisciplined, disloyal and they quarrel must replace him; if he is good it must keep him in line with among themselves. Courageous with friends and cowardly laws that prevent him exceeding his brief. Experience shows withenemies,theyhavenofearofGodandkeepnopromises. that only rulers and republics with their own armies make With mercenaries the only way to delay disaster is to delay seriousprogress,whilemercenariesbringnothingbuttrouble.
 
 thebattle;inpeacetimetheyplunderyouandinwartimethey And a republic with a citizen army is less likely to fall victim let the enemy plunder you. Why? Because the only interest to a coup than a republic paying for mercenary armies.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 48 28/05/2015 14:14 different kinds of armies 49 they have in you and their only reason for fighting is the 12 meagre salary you’re paying them, and that’s not reason enoughtomakethemwanttodieforyou.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
