unlessyouforcethemtobehonest.Inconclusion:arulerisn’t Let me offer an example from modern times. Bishop Luca smartbecausehe’sgettingproperadvice;onthecontrary,it’s Rainaldi, a man close to the present Emperor Maximilian, his good sense that makes the right advice possible.
 
 said that the emperor never took advice from anyone and never got his own policies enacted; this is because he did the opposite of what I proposed above. Being secretive, the emperortendsnottoexplainhisplanstoanyoneanddoesn’t seekadvice.Butwhenhestartsputtinghispoliciesintoaction andpeopleseewhathe’supto,hisministerstellhimhe’sgot itwrong andall tooreadilyhe changeshis mind.Asa result, whatever he does one day he undoes the next and nobody understands what he wants or means to do and no one can make plans in response to his policies.
 
 Soarulermustalwaystakeadvice,butonlywhenhewants it, not when others want to give it to him. In fact he should discourage people from giving him advice unasked. On the other hand he should ask a great deal and listen patiently whenanadviserrespondstruthfully.Andifherealizessomeoneiskeepingquietoutoffear,heshouldshowhisirritation.
 
 Many people think that when a ruler has a reputation for beingsensibleit’sthankstothegoodadvicehe’sgettingfrom hisministersandnotbecausehe’sshrewdhimself.Butthey’re wrong.There’sageneralandinfalliblerulehere:thataleader who isn’t sensible himself can never get good advice, unless he just happens to have put the government entirely in the hands of a single minister who turns out to be extremely shrewd. In this case he may well get good advice, but the situation won’t last long because the minister will soon grab the state for himself. If on the other hand he’s taking advice from more than one person, an ingenuous ruler will find himself listening to very different opinions and won’t know how to make sense of them. Each of his advisers will be thinking of his own interests and the ruler won’t be able to controlthemorevensensewhat’sgoingon.It’snotacaseof 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 95 28/05/2015 14:14 why italian rulers have lost their states 97 Macedonia – not Alexander’s father but the Philip beaten by 24 TitusQuintius–hadnothingliketheresourcesoftheRomans and Greeks who attacked him: all the same, being a military Why Italian rulers have lost their states man and a leader who knew how to please the people and keep the nobles on his side, he held out for many years and thoughin theend hedidlose controlof afewtowns, atleast he hung on to his kingdom.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
