Then, with his own strength and their fewwhoareprovokedcan’tfightbacksincethey’llbedispos- support, he can easily undermine the more powerful neighsessedrefugees.Inthisregardit’sworthnotingthatingeneral bours and hence dominate the region. However, an invader you must either pamper people or destroy them; harm them who fails to manage relations with his new neighbours will justalittleandthey’llhitback;harmthemseriouslyandthey soon lose what territory he has taken; and even while he’s won’tbeableto.Soifyou’regoingtodopeopleharm,make still holding on to it, he’ll be up against all kinds of trouble sure you needn’t worry about their reaction. If, on the other and hostility.
 
 hand, you decide to send an occupying army rather than TheRomansfollowedtheseprincipleswhenevertheytook establish colonies, the operation will be far more expensive a new province: they sent colonists; they established friendly andalltherevenuesfromthenewterritorywillbeusedupin relations with weaker neighbours, though without allowing defendingit,turningwhatshouldhavebeenagainintoaloss. themtoincreasetheirpower;theyunderminedstrongerneighAnd you’ll provoke more hostility: an army moving about bours and they prevented powerful rulers outside the region and requisitioning lodgings will do damage across the entire from gaining influence there. Their handling of Greece will territory, something that has consequences for the whole be example enough: they established good relations with the population and turns them all into enemies. And these are Achaeans and the Aetolians; Macedonia’s power was underenemies who can hit back, people beaten but still on their mined; they drove out Antiochus. They didn’t reward the ownground.Sohoweveryoulookatitmilitarygarrisonsare good behaviour of the Achaeans and the Aetolians by as pointless as colonies are useful. allowing them any new territory and whenever Philip conA ruler who has moved into a new region with a different vincedthemtoestablishfriendlyrelationswithhimtheymade language and customs must also make himself leader and sure he was weakened as a result. Antiochus, for all his protector of the weaker neighbouring powers, while doing strength, was never allowed any influence in the region. The whathecantounderminethestronger.Inparticular,hemust Romans were simply doing what all wise rulers must: not take care that no foreign power strong enough to compete restrictingthemselvestodealingwithpresentthreatsbutusing withhisowngetsachancetopenetratethearea.Peoplewho every means at their disposal to foresee and forestall future are discontented, whether out of fear or frustrated ambition, problemsaswell.Seeninadvance,troubleiseasilydealtwith; will always encourage a foreign power to intervene. It was wait until it’s on top of you and your reaction will come too the Aetolians who invited the Romans into Greece. Every late, the malaise is already irreversible.
 
 time the Romans moved into a new region it was on the Remember what the doctors tell us about tuberculosis: in invitationoflocalpeople.Andit’sinthenatureofthingsthat its early stages it’s easy to cure and hard to diagnose, but if assoonasapowerfulforeignrulermovesintoaregion,allthe you don’t spot it and treat it, as time goes by it gets easy to weaker local powers support him, if only out of resentment diagnose and hard to cure. So it is with affairs of state. See towards the stronger states that previously kept them down. trouble in advance (but you have to be shrewd) and you can So the new ruler will have no trouble winning their support; clear it up quickly. Miss it, and by the time it’s big enough they’ll all run to ally themselves with the territory he has foreveryonetoseeitwillbetoolatetodoanythingaboutit.
 
 taken.Hejusthastowatchoutthattheydon’tgrabtoomuch However,sincetheyhadthiscapacityforseeingathreatin 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 11 28/05/2015 14:14 12 the prince mixed monarchies 13 advance, the Romans always knew how to respond.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
