But since the senators and richest men in town. After this massacre he felt that working with others was demeaning, he decided Agathocles became King of Syracuse and held his throne totakeFermoforhimself.Havinggotthesupportofsomeof without any resistance from the people. Twice defeated by the town’s citizens, people who preferred to see their city theCarthaginiansandthenactuallybesieged,notonlydidhe enslavedratherthanfree,andwiththebackingofVitellozzo, manage to defend his town but, leaving some men behind to hewrotetoGiovanniFoglianisayingthatnowsomanyyears resistthesiege,heledtherestoutofSyracusetoattackAfrica. had gone by he was eager to come home and see his uncle ThesiegewasliftedandtheCarthaginianspushedtothebrink again, visit the town, and check over some of his property.
 
 ofcollapse,atwhichpointtheyacceptedanagreementwhich Andsince,hewrote,he’dbeenworkinghardfornothingbut allowed them to keep Africa and left Sicily to Agathocles. the prestige of his position, he wanted to ride into town in Looking at Agathocles’ life and achievements, you won’t style with a hundred mounted friends and servants beside findmuchthatcanbeattributedtoluck.AsIsaid,hehadno him;thatwayhisfellowcitizenswouldseethathehadn’tbeen backersorbenefactorswhenhetookpowerbutrosethrough wastinghistime.Andheaskedhisunclepleasetoarrangefor the ranks, surviving all kinds of hardships and dangers. And the people of Fermo to organize an appropriate reception, whenhe’dgotpowerheknewhowtotaketough,dangerous somethingthatwouldnotonlyhonourhimbutalsohisuncle, decisions to hold on to it. On the other hand, we can hardly who had brought him up.
 
 describe killing fellow citizens, betraying friends and living Giovanni spared no effort to do his nephew proud and, without loyalty, mercy or creed as signs of talent. Methods after the people of Fermo had given him a formal reception, likethatmaybringyoupower,butnotglory.Ifyouconsider Oliverotto was welcomed into his uncle’s house. A few days Agathocles’abilitytotakerisksandcomeoutontop,andhis later, having used the time to make secret arrangements for remarkable spirit when it came to facing and overcoming the crime he was planning, he threw an impressive banquet obstacles, it’s hard to see why he isn’t rated as highly as the to which he invited Giovanni Fogliani and all the town’s most outstanding military leaders. But his brutality, cruelty leading men. After they’d finished eating and sat through all and inhumanity, together with the endless crimes he com- the entertainments you get on these occasions, Oliverotto mitted,meanhehasnoplaceamongthemenwemostadmire. slyly launched into some weighty reflections on the power Inconclusion,wecan’tattributeAgathocles’achievementsto and achievements of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare luck or to positive qualities, since he needed neither. Borgia. When Giovanni and the others joined the converIn our own times, we have the example of Oliverotto, a sation,Oliverottosuddenlygottohisfeetandsaidthesewere manfromthetownofFermowholivedduringthepapacyof matters bestdiscussed ina moreprivate placeand heheaded Alexander VI. Orphaned of his father while still very young, for another room with Giovanni and all the other citizens Oliverotto was brought up by his uncle, Giovanni Fogliani, trailing after him. They had barely sat down before who had him join the army under Paulo Vitelli in the hope Oliverotto’s soldiers rushed out of their hiding places and that,withmilitarydiscipline,hewouldrisetoahighrank.On killed the lot of them.
 
 Paulo’sdeath,Oliverottoservedunderhisbrother,Vitellozzo, Afterthemassacre,Oliverottogotonhishorse,roderound andbeingverycapable,withastrongpersonalityandpower- the town and surrounded the chief magistrate in the state 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 35 28/05/2015 14:14 36 the prince states won by crime 37 palace,withtheresultthatpeoplewereforcedtodowhathe with generosity.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
