They think about how easily Louis could have kept his position if he hadn’t avoided war when he saw trouble coming. They knew that in Italy, if he had followed the rules mentioned earlier, war couldn’t be avoided in the long run, and the chances would have guaranteed safety and protection for all his friends. Instead, there was a shift in favor of their enemies. Many of them were weak and scared, like Philip and Antiochus in Greece, so they chose to fight with Louis to avoid fighting Venice or Rome in Italy. They could have delayed both wars, but they didn’t.

As soon as Louis arrived in Milan, he did the opposite of what our experts today tell us – to take it easy because time is on your side. Instead, Louis helped Pope Alexander invade Romagna. He didn’t realize that this decision made his own position weaker. He lost friends and the support of those who had come to him for help, while making the pope stronger by adding land to the pope’s spiritual power.

Because of that first mistake, Louis got pulled in deeper. To stop Alexander’s plans and keep him from taking control of Tuscany, Louis had to go further into Italy himself. It was Venetian plans that brought Louis into Italy in the first place. The Venetians wanted to take half of Lombardy, while Louis would take the other half. I’m not going to blame Louis for agreeing to this. He wanted to get a foothold in Italy and didn’t have any friends there. In fact, because of how King Charles acted before him, all doors were closed to Louis, so he had to make do with the allies he could find.

The deal would have worked if Louis hadn’t made other mistakes. Taking Lombardy helped him recover the good reputation that Charles had lost. Genoa surrendered. The Florentines formed an alliance. The Marquis of Mantua, the Duke of Ferrara, Bentivogli of Bologna, Caterina Sforza of Forlì, the lords of Faenza, Pesaro, Rimini, Camerino, and Piombino, as well as the republics of Lucca, Pisa, and Siena, all lined up to become friends.

At this point, the Venetians realized how reckless they had been when they first made the deal: for just two towns in Lombardy, they had made Louis king over a third of Italy. If Louis could have taken Naples with his own forces, he should have done it. If he couldn’t, he shouldn’t have shared the land with another king.

The desire to conquer more land is natural and understandable. When people have the power to do it, they are praised or at least not blamed. But if they don’t have the power and still keep trying, then they are at fault and deserve the blame they get. If Louis had the chance to take Naples with his own army, he should have gone for it; if not, he shouldn’t have split the land with another king.
