People think Louis could have kept his power if he hadn’t avoided war when he saw trouble coming. They knew that in Italy, if he followed the rules, war couldn’t be avoided forever. In the long run, the chances would guarantee safety and protection for his friends. Instead, things shifted in favor of their enemies.

There were so many enemies, and they were weak and scared. Philip and Antiochus in Greece were so strong that Louis didn’t want to fight either Venice or Rome, so he had to take sides in Italy. He could have delayed both wars, but he didn’t. He chose to fight with Louis. With their help, he could have defended himself well against the powerful states that were still around.

But as soon as he arrived in Milan, Louis did the opposite of what the experts today tell us to do—relax and take time on your side. Instead, he helped Pope Alexander invade Romagna. He didn’t realize this hurt his own position. He lost friends and the support of those who relied on him, while making the pope stronger by adding land to his spiritual power.

After that first mistake, Louis got pulled in deeper. To stop Alexander from taking over Tuscany, Louis had to go further into Italy himself. The Venetians wanted to take half of Lombardy while Louis took the other half. I’m not going to blame Louis for agreeing to this. He wanted a foothold in Italy, but he had no friends there because of how King Charles had acted before him. All doors were closed, so Louis had to accept any allies he could find.

This plan could have worked if Louis hadn’t made other mistakes. When he took Lombardy, he regained the reputation Charles had lost. Genoa surrendered. The Florentines offered an alliance. Many other local rulers and republics lined up to be friends. The Venetians saw how risky their first deal was: for two towns in Lombardy, they made Louis king over a third of Italy.

If Louis could have taken Naples with his own army, he should have done it. If not, he shouldn’t have split the land with others. Louis could have kept Naples under a king who was loyal to him, but instead, he kicked that king out and brought in a powerful one to push him away.

Wanting to conquer more land is normal. People will praise or at least not blame leaders who have the resources to do it. But if they don’t have the resources and still try, then they are at fault and deserve the blame they get. If Louis had the power to take Naples, he should have gone for it. If he didn’t, he shouldn’t have shared the land with others.
