People attack each other because of fear or hatred. The cardinals that Borgia had treated badly included Giuliano della Rovere, the cardinal of San Pietro Vincula, Cardinal Colonna, the cardinal of San Giorgio of Savona, and Ascanio Sforza. All the others, except the cardinal of Rouen and the Spanish cardinals, would have been afraid of him if they became pope. The cardinal of Rouen was very powerful because he had the King of France’s support, while the Spanish cardinals were connected to Borgia and owed him favors. 

So, the best plan for Borgia, besides being lucky and having good qualities, was to have a Spanish pope. If that didn’t happen, he should have let Rouen be pope. There are two other ways a private citizen can become a ruler and take the throne, but not Giuliano della Rovere. These ways are better explained in books about republics. First, when someone takes power by doing something terrible, and second, when a private citizen becomes a hereditary ruler with the support of other citizens. 

We will talk about kings who got power by crime using two examples—one from ancient history and one from modern times—and we won’t go deeper because these examples are enough for anyone who has to choose this path. 

Agathocles was from Sicily. He started as a private citizen, actually one of the lowest people, but he became King of Syracuse. 

He was born the son of a potter and lived a bad life. But even so, he had such strong mental and physical skills that when he joined the Syracusan army, he moved up quickly and became the commander-in-chief. Once he was in charge, Agathocles decided to make himself king, using any violence needed to keep the power he had as commander without owing anything to anyone. He talked about this plan with Hamilcar, a Carthaginian whose army was fighting in Sicily, and they made an agreement. 

Then one morning, he called a meeting with the people and the Senate as if he had important government business to talk about. 

At a secret signal, his soldiers came in and killed all the people he wanted to get rid of.
