When they are planned well and show good ideas, you can see it at the battle of Ravenna when the Spanish brought a leader who earned respect and admiration. Italy has plenty of soldiers ready, and they fought the Germans, who use the same tactics as the Swiss. The Spanish, being quick and using small round shields, got close to the German pikes where they were safe and could attack easily. At that point, the Germans were helpless, and if the cavalry hadn’t come to push the Spanish back, they would have all been killed.

If you understand the weak points of these two armies, it’s possible to train a new army that can stop a cavalry attack and won’t be scared of fighting infantry. It depends on what weapons you have and what new tactics you can create. These improvements help a new ruler’s reputation and make him respected.

It would be a big mistake now, after all this time, to miss the chance to save Italy. Words can’t show how much the people in towns suffering from foreign invaders would welcome such a savior. They want revenge, trust him completely, and would be loyal and devoted. Who would close their doors to this man? Who would refuse to obey him? What jealousy could stop him? Almost everyone hates this foreign occupation.

So, if your noble family wants to follow the example of those great men who helped their people, the first thing to do is create an army made up of your own citizens. You can’t find more loyal and determined soldiers than your own people. And if each man is good, when they all come together and are led, fed, and respected by their ruler, they will be even better. Making an army like this is very important if we want to use Italian courage to defend ourselves against foreign enemies.

It’s true that the Swiss and Spanish infantry are strong, but both have weaknesses that would let a third army face them and even beat them. The Spanish can’t handle cavalry, and the Swiss struggle when they meet infantry as determined as themselves. That’s why, as we have seen and will see again, the Spanish can’t stop a French cavalry attack, and the Swiss break down against Spanish-style infantry. Even though the Swiss and Spanish are tough, they each have problems that can be used against them.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
