The chance came to which every town was to send a representative and he and he took it. Having realized, too late, that the growing placedadistinguishedmanincharge.Andsincehewasaware power of Borgia and the Church would be their ruin, the that the recent severity had led some people to hate him, in Orsini arranged to meet together at Magione, near Perugia. order to have them change their minds, and hence win them The meeting produced a rebellion in Urbino, uprisings in overentirelytohisside,hedecidedtoshowthatiftheregime Romagna and all kinds of dangers for Borgia. But with the had been cruel, that was due to the brutal nature of his help of the French he won through. minister,nottohim.Soassoonashefoundapretext,hehad Having recovered credibility, and not wanting to have to deOrcobeheadedandhiscorpseputondisplayonemorning puttheloyaltyoftheFrenchoranyoneelsetothetest,Borgia in the piazza in Cesena with a wooden block and a bloody turnedtotrickery.Hewassogoodatdisguisinghisintentions knife beside. The ferocity of the spectacle left people both that even the Orsini made peace with him, sending Paulo gratified and shocked.
 
 Orsini as mediator. Borgia was extremely generous to Paulo, But let’s get back to where we left off. Borgia had consolireassuring him with gifts of money, clothes and horses, until dated hispower and securedhimself againstmost immediate the ingenuous Orsinis eventually responded and accepted an dangers, building up an army of his own and seeing off the invitation to Senigallia, thus delivering themselves into the majority of the other armies that had been near enough to duke’shands.HavingkilledtheOrsinileadersthenandforced attack him. At this point the only obstacle to further expantheir followers to become his allies, Borgia had laid solid sion was the King of France. Borgia knew the king had realfoundations for his power: he held Romagna and the Duchy izedhe’dmadeamistakesupportinghimearlieronandhence ofUrbinoand,what’smore,hefelthehadwonthesupportof would not put up with further adventures. So he began to thelocalpeoplewhowerebeginningtoenjoysomeprosperity. look around for new alliances and was less than generous in Since this last achievement deserves to be more widely his support when Louis marched south to fight the Spanish known and imitated, I want to give it the proper space. On who were besieging Gaeta in the northern part of the Kingtaking control of Romagna, Borgia found it had been run by dom of Naples. His aim was to be safe from French interweak leaders who had been stripping the people of their ference, something he would have managed soon enough no wealth rather than governing them, and provoking division doubt, if his father, Pope Alexander, had not died.
 
 rather than unity, with the result that theft, feuds and all SothatwashowBorgiadealtwiththeimmediatesituation.
 
 kinds of injustice were endemic. So he decided some good Asfarasthefuturewasconcerned,whatworriedtheduke government was required to pacify the area and force people most of all was that his father’s eventual successor would be torespectauthority.Withthisinmind,heappointedRemirro hostileandtrytodeprivehimoftheterritoryPopeAlexander de Orco, a cruel, no-nonsense man, and gave him complete had given him. He devised four strategies to guard against control. In a short while de Orco pacified and united the this: first, eliminate the families of all the local rulers whose area,establishingaconsiderablereputationforhimselfinthe land he had taken, thus denying a new pope the option of process. At this point the duke decided that such draconian restoring them; second, win the support of all the noble powerswerenolongernecessaryandmightcauseresentment. families of Rome (as we’ve already seen) so as to put the Sohe setupa civilcourtof lawinthe middleofthe territory brakes on any papal initiative; third, get as much control as 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 29 28/05/2015 14:14 30 the prince states won by lucky circumstance 31 possibleoftheCollegethatwouldelectthenextpope;fourth, monthwhilehelayhalfdeadinRome,andinRomeitselfno win so much territory before the pope died as to be able to one took advantage of his weakness; when his enemies, the resist a first attack with his own resources.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
