When we look closely at the reasons for this, we see that in peacetime, it’s easier to control people. History shows us many examples from both ancient and modern times. During war, everyone can see that the ruler’s plan might have problems. It’s much easier to win over people who liked the old government, so your enemies are often those who didn’t like it and joined you to help take the country.

Leaders become great by beating the problems and enemies in their way. When fate wants to make a ruler great, especially a new one who isn’t born into power, they get enemies who want to attack them. This gives the ruler a chance to defeat these enemies and grow stronger. That’s why smart rulers sometimes create enemies on purpose so they can become more powerful by defeating them.

One way rulers try to keep control is by building forts. Forts stop enemies from attacking easily and give a safe place if surprise attacks happen. I think this is a good idea because it has worked for a long time. For example, Niccolò Vitelli tore down two forts in Città di Castello to keep control of the town. When Guidobaldo got his land back after Cesare Borgia took it, he destroyed all the forts because he thought it would be safer without them. The Bentivoglio family did the same when they came back to power in Bologna.

Whether forts help or not depends on the situation. Sometimes they help, sometimes they cause problems. Here’s the main idea: a ruler who fears his own people more than foreign enemies should build forts. But a ruler who fears enemies from other countries more should avoid building forts. 

Forts can cause more problems than they solve. For example, the fortress Francesco Sforza built in Milan made people rebel more than anything else. The best way to protect yourself is not to be hated by your people. Even if you have forts, they won’t save you if your people turn against you. When people decide to fight, they will find help from outside countries.

If a new ruler takes over a place with inside help, they should think hard about why the locals helped them. If the locals didn’t help because they liked the new ruler but because they were unhappy with the old one, they will be hard to keep happy. The new ruler might not be able to give them what they want, so their support will be demanding and unstable.

There are very few recent cases where forts have really helped rulers. One example is the Countess of Forlì, Caterina Sforza. When her husband was killed, she took refuge in a fort, survived a rebel attack, waited for help from Milan, and then took back control.
