In a treaty made in 1474, the person himself was blamed for the murder. His short time as ruler was focused on gaining the right to raise troops in Switzerland.

Louis XII (1462–1515) was King of France from 1498 to 1515. He spent most of his reign in the east, where military losses weakened his power until he was finally defeated by supporters of the 14-year-old Heliogabalus, who was related to the Roman emperor Caracalla.

Louis was originally the Duke of Orleans. He became king after his cousin Charles VIII died in 1498. Soon after, he made a deal with Pope Alexander VI that let him leave his first wife and marry Charles’s widow, which added Brittany to France.

The Orleans family claimed both Milan and Naples. Louis made a deal with Venice to split Milan’s lands and took the town in 1499. The Duke of Milan, Ludovico Sforza, took it back in 1500 but was pushed out again. Louis then made an agreement with Spain to divide the Kingdom of Naples and took the town for France in 1501.

However, the different powers didn’t agree on the division, and in 1503, the Spanish beat the French at Garligliano. In 1508, Louis joined the Holy Roman Empire, England, the Papal States, Florence, and Spain in the League of Cambrai, an alliance against Venice. Louis led the army and won a big battle against Venice in 1509.

After this, Rome and France became more powerful, but they stopped working together. In 1510, Pope Julius II joined England, Spain, Switzerland, and the Holy Roman Empire to form the Holy League to drive France out of Italy. This goal was reached at the Battle of Novara in 1513.

Two years later, Louis’s successor, Francis I, came back to take Milan and much of northern Italy.

Maximilian (1459–1519) was the Habsburg ruler of the Holy Roman Empire. He wanted to unite the empire’s many lands by making the government stronger. He also wanted to take back control in Italy and be the leader of the Christian world by starting a war against Islam.

While he was somewhat successful with changes inside the empire, his foreign policies were confusing and not very effective. He lost Switzerland, which became an independent country in 1499.

Maximilian tried to take land from Venice but didn’t make much progress. In 1512, he joined the Holy League to push the French out of Italy. When Francis I took Milan again in 1515, Maximilian tried and failed to keep France from gaining more land in northern Italy.
