A minister running a state must never think of himself, only of the ruler, and should concen- Avoiding flatterers trateexclusivelyontheruler’sbusiness.Tomakesurehedoes so,theruler,forhispart,musttakeaninterestintheminister, grant him wealth and respect, oblige him and share honours and appointments with him. That way the minister will see that he can’t survive without the ruler. He’ll have so many honours he won’t want any more, so much wealth he won’t look for more, and so many appointments that he’ll guard There’s another important issue we need to consider, a misagainst any change of the status quo. When rulers and their take rulers can only avoid if they are very canny, or very ministers arrange their relationships this way, they can trust goodatchoosingtheirministers.I’mtalkingaboutflatterers.
 
 each other. When they don’t, one or the other is bound to Courts are always full of them and men are so ready to come to a bad end. congratulatethemselvesontheirachievementsandtoimagine themselves more successful than they are that it is hard not to fall into this error. Then if you do try to defend yourself fromflatterersyouruntheriskofhavingpeopledespiseyou.
 
 Because the only way to guard against flattery is to have people understand that you don’t mind them telling you the truth. But when anyone and everyone can tell you the truth, you lose respect.
 
 So the sensible ruler must find a middle way, choosing intelligent men for ministers and giving them and only them the right to tell him the truth, and only on the issues he asks about, not in general. However, the ruler should ask his ministers about everything and listen to their opinions, then make up his mind on his own, following his own criteria. In responding to these advisers, as a group or separately, he should make it clear that the more openly they speak, the morewelcometheiradvicewillbe.Afterwhich,heshouldn’t take advice from anyone else, but get on with whatever has been decided and be firm in his decisions. Try a different approach and you’ll either be ruined by flatterers or change 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 92 28/05/2015 14:14 92 the prince foryou,whenhispoliciesarealldesignedtoenhancehisown 23 interests, then he’ll never make a good minister and you’ll never be able to trust him.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
