He couldn’t keep the first people who believed in him loyal, and he couldn’t force those who doubted him to change their minds. But any new ruler who comes to power by chance will face big problems and dangers, especially at the start. He has to deal with these problems using his own skills. Once he does that and gets rid of those who are against him, so that people start to respect and admire him, then he can enjoy his power safely and live a respected and happy life.

I’ve talked about four great leaders, but now I want to mention a less important man, Hiero of Syracuse. He didn’t have to work hard to take control of his state but still needed some of the same qualities as the others to keep it. He’s a good example of a certain kind of leader. At first, he was just a normal citizen, but then he became King of Syracuse. The luck he had was in the situation at the start: since Carthage was a threat, the people of Syracuse chose him as their military leader. He did such a good job that they made him king. Even as a private citizen, he was capable, and one writer said about him: “He had everything needed to be a king except the kingdom.”

Hiero got rid of the old army and made a new one. He ended old friendships and made new ones. By doing this, with his own soldiers and allies supporting him, he built a strong base to do what he wanted. It took a lot of effort to get power, but very little effort to keep it.

Some rulers rely completely on the support and success of the people who gave them power, which is very unreliable and unstable. They don’t know how to hold on to power, and even if they did, they probably couldn’t. They don’t know how because, unless they are very talented and capable, it’s hard to believe that their time as private citizens prepared them to lead. Also, they don’t have an army they can count on to stay loyal. Like anything that starts suddenly and grows fast, these new rulers don’t have strong foundations and will usually fall at the first big problem. Unless the man who suddenly becomes a ruler is very skilled and lucky, he won’t last long.
