By the time his Baglionis, Vitellis, and Orsinis showed up, no one joined their side. When his father died, he had finished three of his four goals. Even though Borgia couldn’t choose who would be the new pope, at least he could stop anyone he didn’t want from getting the position. He had killed all the local rulers he could get rid of, and almost no one had escaped.

If he had been in good health when his father died, everything would have been easy. He had won over the Roman nobles and had a lot of power over the group that chose the pope. He wanted to control all of Tuscany and had already taken over Perugia, Piombino, and was protecting Pisa.

Once France’s control got weaker (it already had, since the Kingdom of Naples had gone to Spain), both the French and Spanish needed Borgia’s help. He planned to take Pisa, and soon Lucca and Siena would give up without a fight because they were afraid and had old problems with Florence, which couldn’t defend itself.

If Borgia had done all this—and he was almost there when Alexander died—he would have had so much power that he could have fought off any attacks on his own. He wouldn’t have needed help from anyone else’s armies or leaders.

A new leader who knows they have to fight off enemies and make friends, who can overcome problems with force or trickery, and who is both loved and feared by their people, would find no better example than Cesare Borgia. He was followed and respected by his soldiers, who would get rid of enemies before they could attack him. He could fix old systems, be both tough and kind, break up untrustworthy armies and build new ones, and keep the support of kings and princes.

But Alexander died only five years after Borgia started gaining power. Borgia had only truly secured his power in Romagna; all his other lands were still unstable. He was stuck between two very strong, hostile armies and was very sick.

Borgia was so ruthless and skilled, and he knew you had to either win over people or destroy them. He built a strong base of power very fast. If he hadn’t been threatened by those armies or been so sick, he would have beaten every problem.

The strength Borgia built showed soon: Romagna stayed loyal for more than a month while he lay half-dead in Rome. In Rome, no one took advantage of his weakness, and his enemies couldn’t attack him successfully.

The only real criticism of him is his part in choosing Pope Julius. Borgia couldn’t pick the pope he wanted, but he had enough power to block candidates he didn’t like. He made a mistake by allowing a cardinal who didn’t support him to be part of the group that would choose the next pope.

In short, Borgia’s example shows how a leader who rises to power by luck or with help from another ruler can still be smart, tough, and successful if they are determined and know how to handle people and enemies.
