When a king takes over new land, his old land and the new land will soon become one country.

But if a king tries to win back land that has rebelled before, he’s less likely to lose it again. After dealing with a rebellion, he’ll be tougher about punishing troublemakers, checking suspects, and fixing weak defenses. Holding onto new land with different languages, customs, and laws is hard. It takes a lot of luck and effort.

One of the best ways to keep control is for the new ruler to actually live there. This makes the area safer and more stable. The Turkish sultan did this in Greece, and all his other efforts to keep control would not have worked if he hadn’t lived there. When you’re close, you can see problems early and stop rebellions quickly. If you’re far away, you only find out when it’s too late. Also, if the ruler lives there, the people won’t be robbed by officials. The people will be happier because they can ask the ruler for help. If they want to obey, they will like the ruler more, and if not, they will be more afraid. Anyone planning an attack will think twice. So, if you go live in the new land, you’re very unlikely to lose it.

Another good idea is to set up colonies in one or two places. These colonies act like chains that hold the new land to your kingdom. If you don’t do this, you’ll need a big army to keep control. Colonies don’t cost much and only upset a small number of people who lose their houses or land. Since that’s a tiny part of the population, and those people will be poor or have left, they can’t cause much trouble. Everyone else won’t be affected and will be scared to disobey because they don’t want to lose their homes. 

In places like Burgundy, Brittany, Gascony, and Normandy, which have been under French rule for many years, this method worked well. Even when there are some language differences, the customs are similar enough for people to get along. So, a ruler taking over new land in these cases has two important jobs: first, get rid of the old ruler’s family, and second, keep the laws and customs the same. 

In short, colonies are cheap, loyal, and cause less anger and fewer problems.
