Severus didn’t show any signs of wanting an easy life, so the army really liked him. But he was also extremely cruel and violent. He killed so many people that he wiped out much of the population of Rome and Alexandria. By this point, everyone hated him, and even the people close to him got scared. In the end, a soldier killed him while he was with his army.

When Severus wanted to take full control of the empire, he faced two big problems. One was in Asia, where a commander named Pescennius Niger declared himself emperor. The other was in the west, where Albinus also wanted to be emperor. Severus didn’t want to fight both at once, so he tricked Albinus by sending him a letter saying they should share power. He even gave Albinus the title of Caesar and made the Senate agree to make him co-emperor. Albinus believed him, but after Severus defeated Niger and took over the eastern empire, he went back to Rome and accused Albinus of planning to kill him. Severus then stripped Albinus of his power and had him killed.

Severus was smart and fierce, like both a lion and a fox. He was respected and feared by everyone and managed not to be hated by the army. But sometimes he acted without thinking, like when Antoninus killed a centurion’s brother and kept the man close as his bodyguard, which caused big problems.

Now, let’s talk about Commodus, who could have easily kept the empire. He was the son of Marcus Aurelius and became emperor by right. If he had just followed in his father’s footsteps, the army and people would have supported him. But Commodus was cruel and greedy. He even fought as a gladiator in public, which was shameful for an emperor. His soldiers didn’t respect him, and the people hated him. Eventually, he was killed in a conspiracy.

Severus’s son, Antoninus, was better in some ways. People liked him and the army welcomed him. He was a strong leader who could handle tough situations and didn’t care for fancy food or luxury. But the armies had been unhappy with Alexander, who was weak, and when they got rid of him, they chose Maximinus instead.

Maximinus was a real fighter and loved war. The army was tired of weak rulers like Alexander, so they picked Maximinus to lead them, supported by the Praetorian Guard.
