With this pretext and betraying no easylivingofanykind.Sothearmylovedhim.Buthiscruelty sign of any ambition to become emperor, he led his army and ferocity were overwhelming and unspeakable, to the towardsRomeandwasalreadyinItalybeforepeoplerealized extent that, after endless individual murders, he wiped out he’d set out. When he arrived in Rome, the Senate, out of muchofthepopulationofRomeandallthepeopleofAlexanfear, elected him emperor and had Julian killed. Having got dria.Atthispointeverybodyreallyhatedhimandeventhose thus far, Severus faced two obstacles if he was to take com- close to him began to get nervous so that in the end he was pletecontroloftheempire:oneinAsia,wherethecommander killed by a centurion while among his soldiers.
 
 of the Asian armies, Pescennius Niger, had declared himself It’s worth noting that assassinations like this, coming as emperor;andtheotherinthewest,whereAlbinusalsoaspired they do when a determined man takes a considered decision, tobecomeemperor.Decidingitwouldbedangeroustoshow are bound to happen to rulers sometimes, if only because, he was hostile to both opponents at once, Severus chose to onceapersonnolongercaresaboutdying,he’sfreetostrike.
 
 attack Niger and trick Albinus. So he wrote to Albinus, in That said, a ruler shouldn’t be too concerned, because such France, saying that now that the Senate had elected him murdersare extremelyrare. Hemust justtake carenot todo emperor he wanted to share the honour with him, Albinus. a serious injustice to any of the men he has serving him or He sent him the title of Caesar and had the Senate vote to keepsbesidehimtorunthestate.Antoninusinfacthadkilled make him co-emperor. Albinus was taken in, but as soon as the centurion’s brother in disgraceful circumstances and was Severus had defeated and killed Niger and got control of the threatening the man himself every day, yet still kept him in easternempire,hewentbacktoRomeandcomplainedinthe his bodyguard. It was the kind of rash behaviour that can, Senate that Albinus, far from being grateful for everything and in this case did, lead to disaster.
 
 Severus had given him, had set a trap to kill him; as a result, Butlet’sturntoCommodus,whocouldsoeasilyhaveheld he, Severus, would have to go and punish his ingratitude. In on to the empire. Son of Marcus Aurelius, Commodus came facthewenttoFrance,strippedAlbinusofhispowerandhad to power by hereditary right; all he had to do was follow in him killed. his father’s footsteps and he would have been welcome to IfwelookcarefullyatwhatSeverusdid,wefindheplayed army and people alike. But the man was cruel, bestially so, boththeferociouslionandthecunningfoxverywell;hewas and to unleash his appetite and greed on the people he set feared and respected by all parties and he managed to avoid aboutcurryingfavourwiththesoldiersandcorruptingthem.
 
 being hated by the army. It’s hardly surprising, then, that Hehadnoself-respecteitherandwouldoftengodowntothe despite being a new arrival he was able to hold so much floor of the amphitheatre to fight the gladiators. He did so power: his enormous reputation always protected him from many things that were sordid and unworthy of an emperor the hatred people might otherwise have felt as a result of his that his soldiers found him contemptible, until, hated by the pillage and violence. people and despised by the army, he eventually fell victim to Severus’sson,Antoninus,wasalsoamanwithsomeexcel- a conspiracy.
 
 lent qualities; the people thought him remarkable and the Which leaves Maximinus. He was a real warmonger. As I army welcomed him. He was a warlike leader, capable of saidearlieron,thearmieshadbeenfrustratedwiththeeffemhandlingeveryhardshipandcontemptuousoffinefoodsand inate Alexander,and whenthey’d gotrid ofhim theyelected 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 79 28/05/2015 14:14 80 the prince avoiding contempt and hatred 81 Maximinus in his place.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
