Even if your mercenaries are good, they’ll never be strong enough to protect your forts and other defenses against powerful enemies and unfriendly people.

Rulers often use certain strategies that help. Like I said, a new ruler in a new state has always given weapons to the people. History has lots of examples of this.

But when a ruler takes over new land to add to an existing state, he has to take weapons away from the people there—except for the men who helped him take the land. Even those men should be watched carefully over time. To keep control, some rulers have disarmed and weakened their citizens. Some have kept towns divided by encouraging fights between groups. Some have made people hate them on purpose. Others have tried to win over people who didn’t trust them at first. Some have built fortresses; others have torn them down and destroyed them. Even though we can’t judge these choices without knowing all the details, I’ll try to explain them in general.

No new ruler has ever left people unarmed; instead, they have always given weapons to the people. When you give people weapons, those weapons belong to you. People who might have been against you become loyal, and those already loyal become even stronger supporters. You can’t arm everyone, but if you arm some, you can trust the others more.

The men you give weapons to will feel loyal to you. The others won’t be angry because they understand that those who fight for you and risk their lives deserve better rewards. But if you take weapons away from people, you upset them. You show that you don’t trust them because you’re scared or suspicious. Either way, they will start to hate you. Then, since you need their help, you are in trouble.

A long time ago, experts in Florence said you had to control a town called Pistoia by encouraging fights between different groups and control Pisa by holding its forts. So they made groups fight within towns to keep power. This worked when there was a balance of power in Italy, but I don’t think this kind of division helps today.

When an enemy comes, a town divided by fights will fall quickly. The weaker group will join the enemy, and the other group won’t be strong enough to fight both.

The Venetians thought the same way when they made the Guelphs and Ghibellines fight in the towns they controlled. They didn’t want the groups to fight each other fiercely but to be busy enough to not unite against Venice. But this plan failed. After Venice lost a battle, one group took control of the towns. This kind of policy shows weakness. In a strong, confident state, such divisions wouldn’t be allowed because they don’t help anyone.
