You can see the country is praying to God to send someone to save her from the cruelty and harshness of foreigners. You can see she is ready and willing to march under a flag, if only someone would raise one up.

What I can’t see is any family the country could trust right now except your famous house, blessed with great qualities and fortune, favored by God and the Church – actually running the Church, in fact – and so well placed to lead Italy to freedom. If you think about the lives and achievements of the men I’ve talked about, then the project won’t be too hard. It’s true they were rare and remarkable men, but they were still just men, and none of them had a better chance than you do now. What they did had no greater reason, and it was not easier; God was no kinder to them than He has been to you. Justice is on your side because “war is just when there’s no other option and arms are sacred when they are your only hope.”

My feeling is that many things are coming together for a new leader, and I don’t know when the time was ever better than now. If, as I said earlier, Moses could only appear after the people of Israel were slaves in Egypt, Cyrus showed his great spirit after the Persians were beaten by the Medes, and Theseus proved his skill after the Athenians were defeated and scattered, then today, for us to see the qualities of a great Italian, the country had to be worse off than the Jews, more crushed than the Persians, and more divided than the Athenians – leaderless, lawless, beaten, plundered, broken, and ruined in every way.

God has shown us amazing, never-seen-before signs: the sea parted; a cloud led the way for you; stone has gushed water; manna has rained down from heaven; everything has worked together to make you great. The rest is up to you. God isn’t doing everything himself; He wants us to use our free will and take our share of glory.

There was one man who showed signs of greatness, the kind that made you think he was sent by God to save the country, but then his luck changed at the height of his success. So now Italy lies half-dead, waiting to see who will heal her wounds and stop the destruction in Lombardy and the terrible taxes. This is because the old states were badly run and no one knew how to fix things. Nothing brings more honor to a new ruler than the new laws and systems he creates.

It’s no surprise if none of the Italians I’ve talked about have been able to do what I believe your family can do, especially if all our recent wars and revolutions have made it seem like the country has lost its will to fight.
