Of course, when dealing with certain complaints and not getting scared, there are always reasons for taking people’s stuff, and never without a good cause. A leader should handle things calmly and carefully. A ruler who lives like this will always find reasons to take more. But if he trusts too much, he’ll get careless, and if he trusts no one, he’ll make himself hated. Reasons to punish someone happen less often and don’t last long.

These thoughts make us ask: is it better to be loved or feared? The answer is that most people want both, but since that’s hard to do, it’s much safer to be feared than loved. Most people are ungrateful and unreliable; they lie, cheat, and only stick around when things are easy. When danger comes, they run away. So, if you have to choose, it’s better to be feared than loved.

One of Hannibal’s best achievements was leading a huge army made up of many different groups far from home without any fights or rebellions, whether they won or lost. This happened because of Hannibal’s toughness and cruelty, which made his soldiers respect and fear him. Without that cruelty, his other good qualities wouldn’t have worked as well. Historians often praise him for this but also criticize his cruelty, even though it was what made his success possible.

Men care less about disappointing someone they love than someone they fear. Love happens when people feel grateful, but since most people forget gratitude quickly, fear is stronger because it means fear of punishment, and people don’t forget that. Scipio is a good example of a leader whose army rebelled because he was too easy-going and gave his soldiers too much freedom, which hurt discipline.

Still, a ruler who wants to be feared shouldn’t make people hate him. Being feared doesn’t mean being hated if the ruler doesn’t take their property or harm their families. If he must punish someone, he should only do it for good reasons. Above all, he must never steal from his people. People may forget punishments over time, but they won’t forget if their property is taken.

If Scipio had kept leading like this, his reputation would have suffered. But since he followed orders from the Senate, his mistakes were hidden, and his reputation even grew.
