preparation, when he was back leading his armies there was A ruler, then, must never stop thinking about war and simply nothing that could happen that he didn’t know how preparingforwarandhemustworkatitevenmoreinpeace- to deal with.
 
 timethaninwaritself.Hecandothisintwoways,physically Another thing a ruler must do to exercise his mind is read and mentally. Physically, aside from keeping his men exer- history, in particular accounts of great leaders and their cisedanddisciplined,heshouldgohuntingagreatdeal,which achievements.Heshouldlookattheirwartimestrategiesand will toughen up his body. It will also help him get to know studythereasonsfortheirvictoriesanddefeatssoastoavoid different landscapes, how the mountains rise and the valleys the failures and imitate the successes. Above all he must do open out, the lie of the plains, what rivers and marshes are what some great men have done in the past: take as model a like. These are things he should study really carefully since leader who’s been much praised and admired and keep his this kind of knowledge is useful in two ways. First, he’ll get example and achievements in mind at all times. Alexander to know his own country and hence will have a better sense the Great, it seems, modelled himself on Achilles, Caesar on of how it can be defended. Second, familiarity with these Alexander and Scipio on Cyrus. Anyone who reads Xenoplaces will make it easier for him to grasp the topography of phon’slifeofCyruswillseehowvaluablehisexamplewasto places he needs to understand but hasn’t seen before. The Scipio, and how closely Scipio’s decency, charm, humanity hills, valleys, plains, rivers and marshes of Tuscany, for andgenerosityconformtothedescriptionXenophongivesof example,havemuchincommonwiththoseofotherareas,so Cyrus. A sensible leader must follow this advice and never thatknowing thelie oftheland inone regionmakesit easier relax in peacetime but work hard to make the most of it and to get to know it in another. The ruler who doesn’t have turn it to his advantage in the tough times ahead. That way, this facility lacks the first thing a commander needs, because when his luck does turn, he’ll be ready.
 
 understanding the land helps you find the enemy, lead your armybytherightroute,chooseaplacetocamp,planoutthe battle and lay siege to a town, all in the best way possible.
 
 One of the things historians admired about the Achaean leaderPhilopoemenwasthateveninpeacetimehethoughtof nothingbutmilitarystrategyandwhenhewasinthecountry with his friends he would often stop and ask them: If the enemy were over there on that hill and we were down here with our army, who would be in the better position? How could we attack them without breaking ranks? If we decided to retreat, how would we do it? And if they retreated, how wouldwegoafterthem?Andasheandhisfriendswentalong he would list all the predicaments an army can find itself in.
 
 He listened to their ideas, expressed and explained his own; 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 58 28/05/2015 14:14 58 the prince a ruler and his army 59 won’t, as I’ve said, have his soldiers’ respect and won’t be so much so that, thanks to this constant work of mental able to trust them.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
