And I’m sure we’d all agree that it would be an excellent thing if a ruler were to have all the good qualities mentioned above and none of the bad; but since it’s in the nature of life that you can’t have or practise all those qualities all of the time, a ruler must take care to avoid the disgrace that goes It’stimetolookathowarulershouldbehavewithhissubjects with the kind of failings that could lose him his position. As and his friends. Given that a great deal has already been for failings that wouldn’t lead to his losing power, he should written about this, I fear people may find my contribution avoid them if he can; but if he can’t, he needn’t worry too presumptuous,especiallysince,heremorethanelsewhere,the much. In the same way, he mustn’t be concerned about the code of conduct I’m offering will be rather controversial. bad reputation that comes with those negative qualities that But since my aim was to write something useful for anyone are almost essential if he is to hold on to power. If you think interested,Ifeltitwouldbeappropriatetogototherealtruth aboutit,there’llalwaysbesomethingthatlooksmorallyright of the matter, not to repeat other people’s fantasies. Many butwouldactuallyleadarulertodisaster,andsomethingelse writers have dreamed up republics and kingdoms that bear that looks wrong but will bring security and success.
 
 no resemblance to experience and never existed in reality; thereissuchagapbetweenhowpeopleactuallyliveandhow they ought to live that anyone who declines to behave as people do, in order to behave as they should, is schooling himself for catastrophe and had better forget personal security:ifyoualwayswanttoplaythegoodmaninaworldwhere most people are not good, you’ll end up badly. Hence, if a rulerwantstosurvive,he’llhavetolearntostopbeinggood, at least when the occasion demands.
 
 Soleavingasidethingspeoplehavedreamedupaboutrulers and concentrating instead on reality, let’s say that when we talkaboutanyone,butespeciallyaboutleaders,whoaremore exposed than others to the public eye, what we point are the qualities that prompt praise or blame. One man is thought generous and another miserly; one is seen as benevolent, anotherasgrasping;onecruel,theotherkind;onetreacherous, 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 61 28/05/2015 14:14 generosity and meanness 63 nothing from him, which is to say very few.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
