Alexander the Great conquered many places, but the Kingdom of Darius didn’t rebel against him while he was alive. After Alexander died, his successors still managed to keep control. Why was that?

Turkey is hard to conquer, but once you do, it’s easy to hold onto. France, on the other hand, is easier to conquer but much harder to keep.

The reason Turkey is hard to conquer is that there are no powerful barons inside waiting to help you by rebelling. No one inside will make your invasion easier.

Now that we know how hard it is to keep control of a place you’ve conquered, some readers might be surprised to learn what happened when Alexander the Great took over Asia just a few years before he died. You might think the whole area would have rebelled, but his successors kept control. Their only problems came from fighting among themselves.

To explain, remember that all monarchies have been ruled in one of two ways: either by a king and his ministers, or by a king and barons. Barons are rich landowners who get their power from their families, not the king.

If a state is run by a king and his ministers, the king is the most powerful person. People only obey others because the king says so, so they are loyal to him. In this system, the king can easily control the land because no one else has power.

Turkey is an example of this kind of government. It’s ruled by one leader, the sultan. He divides the land into provinces and appoints officials to run them. He can hire and fire them whenever he wants.

Because of this, it’s very hard for anyone inside Turkey to rebel and help an invader.

But France is different. It’s run by barons who have their own lands and people who obey them, not the king. Some barons don’t like the king and want to take power. If you’re invading France, you can get help from these unhappy barons.

This makes conquering France easier because you can get inside help. But holding onto France is harder because the barons will always fight each other and the king. Even if you get rid of the king’s family, the barons still want power and can rebel when they get the chance.

So, in places like France, you have to deal with many powerful people who want control, which makes keeping the land much harder after you conquer it.
