Rebelling, its people will always rally to the 6 cry offreedomandtheinspirationoftheiroldinstitutions.It doesn’tmatterhowlongthey’vebeenoccupiedorhowbenevolent the occupation, these things will never be forgotten. States won by the new ruler’s own Whatever you do, whatever measures you take, if the popu- forces and abilities lation hasn’t been routed and dispersed so that its freedoms and traditions are quite forgotten, they will rise up to fight forthoseprinciplesatthefirstopportunity;justasthePisans did after a hundred years of Florentine dominion.
 
 But when a people has been accustomed to living under a ruler and the ruler’s family has been eliminated, then, since Inthefollowingdiscussiondealingwithstateswhereboththe they’re used to obeying but now have no one to follow, they ruler and the form of government are entirely new, no one won’tbeabletochooseanewleaderfromamongthemselves should be surprised if I choose to cite the most impressive nor to live in freedom without one, so they’ll be slower to examples. The fact is that although people almost always rebelandaninvadercanwinthemoverandgaintheirloyalty proceed by imitation, following in another man’s footsteps, more easily. Republics, on the other hand, have more life in youcannevertreadamodel’spathorreproducehisqualities them, more hatred and a greater thirst for revenge. Their exactly. So, if you’re sensible, you set out to follow a trail memory of old freedoms lingers on and won’t let them rest. blazedbysomeonewhowastrulygreat,someonereallyworth In these cases, your only options are to reduce the place to imitating,sothatevenifyou’renotonthesamelevelyourself rubble or go and live there yourself. atleastyou’llreflectalittleofhisbrilliance.It’sliketheclever archer who senses that his target is too far off, knows the limitations of his bow, and so aims far higher than he normallywould,notbecausehereallywantshisarrowtogothat high, but to have it fall from a height on to his target.
 
 So let’s start by saying that when it comes to entirely new regimes where a new ruler has seized the state, the ease or difficulty of his staying in power will be in proportion to his abilities or failings. And since you can’t go from being an ordinarycitizentoarulerwithouteithertalentorfavourable circumstances, we must suppose that one or the other of these factors will be offsetting, at least in part, a great many difficulties. That said, those who haven’t relied too much on lucky circumstances have lasted longer. Another positive factoristhatsinceinthiscasetherulerdoesn’talreadypossess another state, he will be forced to live in his new territory.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 20 28/05/2015 14:14 20 the prince destroy you.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
