Of course and responding to certain allegations and not get frightened there are always reasons for taking people’s property and a over nothing. He should go about things coolly, cautiously ruler who has started to live that way will never be short of andhumanely:ifhe’stootrusting,he’llgetcareless,andifhe pretexts for grabbing more. On the other hand, reasons for trusts no one he’ll make himself unbearable. executing a man come more rarely and pass more quickly.
 
 These reflections prompt the question: is it better to be Butwhenarulerisleadinghisarmyandcommandinglarge loved rather than feared, or vice versa? The answer is that numbers of soldiers, then above all he must have no qualms onewouldprefertobebothbut,sincetheydon’tgotogether about getting a reputation for cruelty; otherwise it will be easily,ifyouhavetochoose,it’smuchsafertobefearedthan quite impossible to keep the army united and fit for combat.
 
 loved.Wecansaythisofmostpeople:thattheyareungrateful One of Hannibal’s most admirable achievements was that andunreliable;theylie,theyfake,they’regreedyforcashand despite leading a huge and decidedly multiracial army far theymeltawayinthefaceofdanger.Solongasyou’regener- from home there was never any dissent among the men or ousand,asIsaidbefore,notinimmediatedanger,they’reall rebellionagainsttheirleaderwhetherinvictoryordefeat.The onyourside:they’dshedtheirbloodforyou,they’dgiveyou onlypossibleexplanationforthiswasHannibal’stremendous theirbelongings,theirlives,theirchildren.Butwhenyouneed cruelty, which, together with his countless positive qualities, them they turn their backs on you. The ruler who has relied meant that his soldiers always looked up to him with respect entirely on their promises and taken no other precautions is andterror.Thepositivequalitieswithoutthecrueltywouldn’t lost.Friendshipthatcomesataprice,andnotbecausepeople have produced the same effect. Historians are just not thinkadmire your spirit and achievements, may indeed have been ing when they praise him for this achievement and then paid for, but that doesn’t mean you really possess it and you condemn him for the cruelty that made it possible.
 
 certainlywon’tbeabletocountonitwhenyouneedit.Men To show that Hannibal’s other qualities wouldn’t have are less worried about letting down someone who has made donethejobalonewecantakethecaseofScipio,whosearmy himself lovedthan someone whomakes himselffeared. Love mutinied in Spain. Scipio was an extremely rare commander bindswhensomeonerecognizesheshouldbegratefultoyou, notonlyinhisowntimesbutinthewholeofrecordedhistory, but,sincemenareasadlot,gratitudeisforgottenthemoment but he was too easy-going and as a result gave his troops a it’s inconvenient. Fear means fear of punishment, and that’s freedom that was hardly conducive to military discipline.
 
 something people never forget. FabiusMaximuscondemnedhimforthisintheSenate,claimAll the same, while a ruler can’t expect to inspire love ing that he had corrupted the Roman army. When one of when making himself feared, he must avoid arousing hatred. his officers sacked the town of Locri, Scipio again showed Actually, being feared is perfectly compatible with not being leniency;hedidn’tcarryoutreprisalsonbehalfofthetownshated. And a ruler won’t be hated if he keeps his hands off folk and failed to punish the officer’s presumption, so much his subjects’ property and their women. If he really has to sothatsomeonedefendingScipiointheSenateremarkedthat have someone executed, he should only do it when he has he was one of those many men who don’t make mistakes properjustificationandmanifestcause.Aboveall,hemustn’t themselves, but find it hard to punish others who do. If seize other people’s property. A man will sooner forget the Scipio had gone on leading his armies like this, with time his 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 66 28/05/2015 14:14 66 the prince cruelty and compassion 67 Allthesame,aleadermustthinkcarefullybeforebelieving death of his father than the loss of his inheritance.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
