They have to set up a new way of running things and new rules. Even though we don’t know much about Moses, since he followed God’s orders, we still have to admire him for being chosen by God. But let’s think about Cyrus and other men who won and started kingdoms. When we look closely at what they did and the systems they created, we see they aren’t very different from what Moses did with God’s help.

Starting a new government is always harder, more likely to fail, and more dangerous than continuing the old one. The person making the changes will make enemies of those who were doing well before, while the people who might benefit won’t fully support the new system. This is partly because they’re scared of the opponents, who still have some power, and partly because people don’t really believe in change until they see it actually working. So, as soon as the old system’s supporters see a chance, they attack hard, while the new system’s supporters only help a little, which puts the new leader in a tough spot.

To understand the problem better, we have to ask: Is the leader trying to make changes using his own strength, or does he need help from others? If he has to ask for help, he will probably fail. But if he has his own power and can force his plans, then he’s less likely to be in danger. That’s why leaders who have armed forces usually succeed, while those without are likely to lose.

We also have to remember that the mood of the people changes a lot. It’s easy to convince people to believe in something, but it’s hard to keep them believing. When people stop trusting you, you need to be strong enough to make them believe again.

Leaders like Moses, Cyrus, Theseus, and Romulus faced many problems when they started their rule, but they could keep control because they had armies. Without armed forces, their new laws wouldn’t have lasted long. We saw this happen in our own time, where states won by force stayed in power.

Finally, those who became rulers because of their own skill, like Moses, Cyrus, Romulus, and Theseus, are the most impressive examples of leadership.
