Arnold of Brescia was stopped. Fra Dolcino was stopped. Savonarola was stopped. The Albigeois were stopped. The Vaudois were stopped. The Lollards were stopped.

The Hussites were stopped too. Even after Luther’s time, where people kept punishing others for their beliefs, they usually succeeded. In Spain, Italy, Flanders, and the Austrian empire, Protestantism was wiped out; and it probably would have been in England too, if Queen Mary had lived longer or if Queen Elizabeth had died. Persecution worked most of the time, except when those with different beliefs were too strong to be stopped.

It’s clear that Christianity could have been wiped out in the Roman Empire. It spread because the punishments were only occasional, short, and there were long times when people could share their beliefs freely. It’s silly to think truth alone is powerful enough to win against torture and death. People can be just as passionate about wrong beliefs as they are about the truth. If the law or society punishes enough, it can stop any idea from spreading.

The real strength of the truth is that even if it’s crushed many times, over the years people will find it again. Eventually, it will come back at a time when conditions are better, and it can grow strong enough to resist being stopped.

Some might say we don’t kill people for different opinions anymore. We even honor those who shared new ideas. That’s true—we don’t execute heretics now, and modern punishments aren’t harsh enough to completely stop ideas. But we shouldn’t pretend that legal punishment for opinions doesn’t still exist. Laws still punish people for what they say or believe, and these punishments could come back in full force someday.

For example, in 1857, in Cornwall, a man with a good reputation was sent to prison for 21 months just for saying and writing some offensive things about Christianity. Around the same time, at the Old Bailey court, two people were rejected as jurors and one was insulted because they said they didn’t believe in any religion. A foreigner was even denied justice for the same reason when he tried to fight against a thief.
