I have said these obvious things to help explain the main idea of freedom, not because they are really needed for this specific question. Usually, people talk about children’s interests as if they are the only thing that matters, and grown-ups’ interests don’t matter at all.

I already said that because there are no clear rules, freedom is often given when it shouldn’t be, and taken away when it should be allowed. One example of this is where people feel very strongly about freedom, but I think it’s the wrong place for it. A person should be free to do what they want with their own life, but they shouldn’t be free to do whatever they want when they are responsible for someone else, just because they say that person’s life is also their business.

The government should respect each person’s freedom in things that only affect themselves, but it must watch carefully how someone uses power over others. This is mostly ignored when it comes to family relationships, which are actually the most important for human happiness. Husbands have almost complete control over their wives, and this needs to change. Wives should have the same rights and legal protection as everyone else. People who support this unfair control don’t even pretend it’s about freedom; they openly support having power over others.

The problem with children is that wrong ideas about freedom stop the government from doing its job. It’s almost like people think their children are actually a part of themselves, not just in a way of speaking. People get very protective when the law tries to interfere with a parent’s total control over their kids—more protective than when it comes to their own freedom. Most people care more about having power than about actual freedom.

Think about education. Isn’t it obvious that the government should make sure every child gets a good education up to a certain level? But who is brave enough to say this out loud? Almost no one will disagree that it is one of the most important jobs of parents (or, as the law usually says, the father) to give a child a good education so they can live well and help others.
