There are strong points in these arguments. I won’t say for sure if they’re enough to explain why it’s weird to punish someone who helps a crime when the main person doesn’t get punished. For example, fining or jailing the person who arranges something but not the one who actually does it—the owner of a gambling place but not the gambler. Even less should normal buying and selling be stopped for the same reasons.

Almost everything people buy and sell can be used too much, and sellers want customers to buy a lot. But you can’t use this to support laws like the Maine Law. The people who sell strong drinks want customers to drink a lot, but we still need them because drinks have normal, okay uses. Still, the fact that sellers want people to get drunk is a real problem. This makes it okay for the government to put rules and limits on them, even if those rules might seem like they take away freedom.

Another question is whether the government, while allowing something, should still try to discourage people from doing things it thinks aren’t good for them. Like, should it make getting drunk more expensive or harder by having fewer places to buy alcohol?

On this and many other practical issues, you have to think carefully. Raising taxes on things like alcohol just to make them harder to get is almost like banning them completely. You could only do that if banning was okay in the first place.

When prices go up, some people can’t afford those things anymore, and others have to pay more just because they like them. What people choose to enjoy and how they spend their money, after paying what they owe to the government and others, is their own business and should be their decision. This might make it seem wrong to tax things like alcohol just to make money. But taxes are unavoidable. Most countries need a lot of taxes that come indirectly from things people buy. So, the government will end up charging more for some things, which might stop some people from buying them. Because of this, the government should think about which items people can do without and, especially, choose to tax those things that are harmful if used too much.
