Unfortunately, people aren’t sure if the end of severe legal punishments for different beliefs will last. Even though things seem calm on the surface, there are still efforts to bring back old bad ways or to introduce new ideas.

When people talk about religion coming back, some narrow-minded people see it as bringing back hatred too. In this country, many middle-class people have strong feelings of intolerance. It doesn’t take much for them to start treating others badly just because they believe differently. It’s these opinions and feelings about people with different beliefs that stop this country from having true mental freedom.

For a long time, the main problem with laws punishing people for their beliefs is that they make social rejection worse. This rejection is very powerful. Because of it, people in England are less likely to openly share unpopular opinions than people in other countries where the law punishes them.

For most people who need others’ support to live, social opinion is as strong as the law. Being rejected by society is like being put in jail because it stops them from earning a living. People who don’t need anyone’s approval and don’t care what powerful groups or the public think can say what they want. They might be disliked or talked about badly, but that’s something they should be strong enough to handle. They don’t need special sympathy.

Even though we don’t punish people who think differently as badly as before, we might still hurt ourselves by how we treat them. For example, Socrates was killed, but his ideas grew and spread widely. Christians were thrown to lions, but Christianity grew into a big and powerful religion. Today, social intolerance doesn’t kill anyone or destroy ideas. Instead, it makes people hide their beliefs or stop trying to share them with others.

Because of this, unpopular ideas don’t really grow or disappear much over time. They stay hidden in small groups of thoughtful people and never become a big influence on the world, either in a good or bad way.
