A government can never have too much activity that helps people work hard and grow on their own without getting in their way. Problems start when the government stops encouraging people to use their own energy and instead tries to do everything for them. Instead of just giving advice or sharing information, it controls people too much or makes them step back and takes over their jobs.

The value of a country depends on the value of the people in it. If a country cares more about being organized and running smoothly than about helping its people think and grow, it will only produce small-minded people. These small-minded people might be easier to control, even for good reasons, but they won’t be able to do anything great. No matter how perfect the system is, it won’t work well if the people inside it don’t have energy and power, which the system has tried to take away.

Note 1: Right after writing this, there was a government action in 1858 that seemed to go against these ideas. The government punished people for what they said about politics. But this didn’t make me change my mind or my words. I still believe that, except for some panic moments, the time when people were punished for talking about politics is mostly over in our country. First, the punishments didn’t last long, and second, these weren’t really political punishments. The people were accused of spreading a belief that killing a tyrant (a cruel ruler) was okay, which was seen as wrong.

If my ideas here are right, then people should have full freedom to believe and talk about any idea, even if others think it’s wrong. So, it’s not important to decide here if killing a tyrant is right or wrong.

I will just say that this idea has been debated many times. Some people think that when a citizen kills a criminal who has broken the law and can’t be punished by normal rules, that act is not a crime but a brave and good thing. Whether it’s right or wrong, it’s not the same as murder; it’s more like a war within a country.
