196 For example, in the pottery business, the Cochrane company in Glasgow says: “To keep up how much we make, we started using machines that unskilled workers can operate, and every day we see that these machines help us make more than the old way.” The Factory Acts are pushing more factories to use machines.

197 After the Factory Act was extended to potteries, many power-driven jiggers replaced the old hand-moved ones.

198 (This is from official factory inspection reports.)

199 When new machines were introduced in making matches, one part of the factory replaced 230 young workers with just 32 boys and girls aged 14 to 17. Using steam power in 1865 saved even more labor.

200-201 (These are also from official reports.)

202 But remember, not all factories have these improvements. Many old factories can’t afford to buy these machines. Inspector May said he was happy about the new Factory Act, even though it caused some temporary problems because it was fixing real issues.

203 In places like blast furnaces, workers often wasted time at the start of the week by not working hard on Monday or Tuesday, then worked longer hours later to catch up. Small factory owners had irregular work hours, losing days and then working all night. They usually made their own kids work too. This irregular schedule caused problems because workers made up for lost time by working longer hours later. In Birmingham, a lot of time was wasted by working slowly part of the time and working too hard the rest.

204 The growing railway system made this worse by causing sudden work orders, rushed work, skipping meals, and late working hours.

205-206 (More official reports back this up.)

207 Factory owners used to say that if workers didn’t finish shipping orders on time, the business would lose money. But after steam power made travel faster, this excuse didn’t hold up anymore.

208 (Another official report.)

209 Way back in 1699, John Bellers said that changing fashion trends made poor workers suffer. First, in winter, workers had little work because factory owners didn’t want to buy materials until they knew what styles would be popular in spring. Then, in spring, there weren’t enough skilled workers, so factory owners hired many apprentices. This took workers away from farming, caused many people to become poor in cities, and made some so desperate they couldn’t even ask for help.
