e., the price of labour as compared both with surplusvalue and with the value of the product, stands higher in the second than in the first.3 J. W. Cowell, member of the Factory Commission of 1833, after careful investigation of the spinning trade, came to the conclusion that “in England wages are virtually lower to the capitalist, though higher to the operative than on the Continent of Europe.”4 The English Factory Inspector, Alexander Redgrave, in his report of Oct. 31st, 1866, proves by comparative statistics with continental states, that in spite of lower wages and much longer working-time, continental labour is, in proportion to the product, dearer than English. An English manager of a cotton factory in Oldenburg declares that the working time there lasted from 5:30 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturdays included, and that the workpeople there, when under English overlookers, did not supply during this time quite so much product as the English in 10 hours, but under German overlookers much less. Wages are much lower than in England, in many cases 50%, but the number of hands in proportion to the machinery was much greater, in certain departments in the proportion of 5:3.
 
 Mr. Redgrave gives very full details as to the Russian cotton factories. The data were given him by an English manager until recently employed there. On this Russian soil, so fruitful of all infamies, the old horrors of the early days of English factories are in full swing. The managers are, of course, English, as the native Russian capitalist is of no use in factory business. Despite all over-work, continued day and night, despite the most shameful under-payment of the workpeople, Russian manufacture manages to vegetate only by prohibition of foreign competition.
 
 I give, in conclusion, a comparative table of Mr. Redgrave’s, on the average number of spindles per factory and per spinner in the different countries of Europe. He himself remarks that he had collected these figures a few years ago, and that since that time the size of the factories and the number of spindles per labourer in England has increased. He supposes, however, an approximately equal progress in the continental countries mentioned, so that the numbers given would still have their value for purposes of comparison.
 
 AVERAGE NUMBER OF SPINDLES PER FACTORY England, average of spindles per factory 12,600 France, average of spindles per factory 1,500 Prussia, average of spindles per factory 1,500 Belgium, average of spindles per factory 4,000 Saxony, average of spindles per factory 4,500 Austria, average of spindles per factory 7,000 Switzerland, average of spindles per factory 8,000 AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED TO SPINDLES France one person to 14 spindles Russia one person to 28 spindles Prussia one person to 37 spindles Bavaria one person to 46 spindles Austria one person to 49 spindles Belgium one person to 50 spindles Saxony one person to 50 spindles 396 Chapter 22 Switzerland one person to 55 spindles Smaller States of Germany one person to 55 spindles Great Britain one person to 74 spindles “This comparison,” says Mr.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
