“Would you want Parliament to get involved?”  
“I think if anything real is going to happen to improve education for the colliers’ children, it has to be made a law by Parliament.”  

“Would you make that law only for colliers, or for all workers in Great Britain?”  
“I am here to speak for the colliers.”  

“Why should you treat colliery boys differently from other boys?”  
“Because I think they are different.”  

“In what way?”  
“In a physical way.”  

“Why is education more important for them than for other boys?”  
“I’m not sure it’s more important; but because they work so hard in the mines, they have less chance to get an education, either at Sunday schools or day schools.”  

“You can’t look at this issue all by itself, can you?”  

“Are there enough schools?”  
“No.”  

“If the government said every child must go to school, would there be enough schools for them?”  
“No, but I think if that happened, schools would be built.”  

“Some of the boys can’t read or write at all, right?”  
“Most can’t... Most of the men can’t either.”  

Since 1842, women haven’t worked underground. Instead, they work on the surface, loading coal, pulling tubs to canals and trains, sorting coal, and so on. Their numbers have gone up a lot in the last few years.  

Most of these women are wives, daughters, or widows of miners. They range in age from 12 to 50 or 60 years old.  

“What do miners think about women working?”  
“Most miners don’t like it.”  

“Why not?”  
“Because they think it’s bad for women.”  

“There’s something different about how they dress?”  
“Yes, they wear clothes more like men, and sometimes it looks like they lose all sense of decency.”  

“Do the women smoke?”  
“Some do.”  

“Is the work very dirty?”  
“Very dirty.”  

“They get as black and dirty as the men underground?”  
“Yes, as black as those who work in the mines... I believe a woman with children can’t take proper care of them if she does that kind of work.”  

“Do you think these widows could find other jobs that pay as much, like 8 to 10 shillings a week?”  
“I can’t say.”  

“Even so, would you still try to stop them from earning money this way?”  
“Yes, I would.”  

“What do people around here think about women working?”  
“They think it’s bad for women. As miners, we want to respect women more than to see them working on the pit bank. Some of the jobs are really hard; some girls have moved as much as 10 tons of coal a day.”  

“Do you think women working at the mines behave worse than women working in factories?”  
“The number of bad girls might be a little higher than in factories.”  

“But you’re not happy with how women behave in factories either?”  
“No.”  

“Would you ban women from working in factories too?”  
“No, I wouldn’t.”  

“Why not?”  
“Because I think working in mills is a more respectable job for them.”  

“Do you still think it harms their morals?”  
“Not as much as working at the pit bank. It’s more about how society views it, not just about morals. The damage it does to the girls’ social standing is really bad.”
