When feudal lords lost power, many peasants were forced off the land and became what’s called the “proletariat,” or working class. But there weren’t enough new factories to hire all these people fast enough. Also, these people were used to a different way of life and couldn’t easily adjust to working in factories. So, many became beggars, thieves, or wanderers, mostly because they had no other choice.

Because of this, during the 15th and 16th centuries, Western Europe made very harsh laws against vagrancy (wandering without work). The new working class was punished as if they were criminals by choice, even though they were forced into this life.

In England, these laws started under King Henry VII.

In 1530, under Henry VIII, old beggars who couldn’t work were allowed to beg with a license. But strong vagabonds were whipped and put in jail. They were tied to carts and whipped until they bled. Then they had to swear to return to their birthplace or where they lived before and find work. Later, if they were caught again, they would be whipped and have half their ear cut off. If caught a third time, they could be executed as serious criminals.

Under Edward VI in 1547, if someone refused to work, they could be forced into slavery by the person who reported them. Their “master” could feed them only basic food and make them do any kind of work, even the grossest jobs, using whips and chains if needed. If the slave ran away for two weeks, they would be a slave for life and get branded with an S on their body. Running away three times meant death. Masters could sell or rent out their slaves like property. If slaves rebelled, they could be executed. Officials were told to catch these “idle” people. If a vagabond was found wandering for three days, they would be taken back to their birthplace, branded with a V, chained, and forced to work. If they lied about where they were from, they became slaves of that place forever. People could take vagabond children and make them apprentices until they were 20 or 24 years old. If the kids ran away, they became slaves again and could be whipped or chained. Masters could put iron rings on their slaves to keep track of them. Some poor people were hired by towns or individuals who gave them food and work; these “parish slaves” existed in England until the 1800s.

In 1572, Queen Elizabeth made it a law that beggars over 14 without a license would be whipped and branded on the ear unless someone agreed to take them into service for two years. If they were caught begging again after 18, they could be executed unless someone took them as servants. For the third offense, they would be executed without mercy.
