The “full-priced” bakers complained about their competitors in front of a government committee. They said, “These rivals only survive by cheating the public and making their workers work 18 hours but paying them for only 12 hours. The workers do a lot of unpaid labor, and that’s how these bakers compete and keep doing it even now.”

They explained that the bakers competing with low prices cause the problem of night-work. “If a baker sells bread for less than the cost of flour, he has to make up for it by getting more work from his employees. If I pay my workers for 12 hours but my neighbor gets 18 or 20 hours from his workers, he can sell bread cheaper than me. If workers were paid for all their extra hours, this would stop.”

Many of the workers for these low-paying bakers are foreigners and young people who have to accept almost any wage they can get.

This complaint shows how the capitalist thinks. The capitalist doesn’t realize that the normal price of labor already includes some unpaid work, which is actually where he makes his profit. He doesn’t see unpaid work as extra because it’s part of the normal workday he thinks he’s paying for. But he does see overtime—working beyond normal hours—as extra work that needs extra pay.

When competing with a cheaper seller, he even demands extra pay for overtime. But he doesn’t realize this extra pay also includes unpaid work, just like the normal pay does. For example, if one hour of a 12-hour workday costs 3 pence and represents half an hour of real work, overtime might cost 4 pence but only represent two-thirds of an hour of work. In the first case, the capitalist takes half the work for free; in the second, he takes one-third of the hour without paying.

The value of money is assumed to stay the same here.

The “price of labor” means the amount paid for a certain amount of work. One expert explained that wages depend on both the price of labor and how much work is done. Wages can go up if workers work more, even if the price of labor stays the same.

Another thinker said it’s the amount of labor, not just the price, that depends on the cost of living. If food and other necessities get cheaper, workers will work less. Employers know there are many ways to raise or lower the price of labor besides just changing the wage amount.

Finally, one expert pointed out that workers care mostly about how much money they get paid, not how much work they actually do.
