But we would rather not be stopped from hiring boys under 13, or even under 14, than not be allowed to have the boys we already have work at night. The boys who work during the day also have to work at night sometimes because the men can’t only work nights; it would make them unhealthy. We do think that working nights every other week is okay.

Messrs. Naylor & Vickers, who care about their business, believe that switching night work around might be worse than working nights all the time. They say the men who work nights and those who work only days are fine.

They don’t want to stop boys under 18 from working at night because it would cost more money. That’s the only reason. (That’s a bit selfish!) They think the extra cost would be too much for the business to handle. (That sounds like a weak excuse!) Workers are hard to find here, and if there was a rule stopping boys under 18 from working nights, they might not have enough workers. (Basically, Ellis Brown & Co. would have to pay workers what they’re really worth, and they don’t want that.)

The “Cyclops Steel and Iron Works,” run by Messrs. Cammell & Co., is as big as John Brown & Co.’s. The managing director gave a written statement to the Government official, Mr. White. Later, he decided not to share it again when he got it back to check. But Mr. White remembered clearly that for the Cyclops company, stopping kids and young people from working at night would be impossible—it would be like shutting down their factory. Even though they only have a little over 6% of workers under 18, and less than 1% under 13.

Mr. E. F. Sanderson, from Sanderson, Bros., & Co., which runs steel mills and forges, says: “It would be really hard to stop boys under 18 from working at night. The main problem would be that it costs more to hire men instead of boys. I don’t know exactly how much, but probably it wouldn’t be enough for manufacturers to raise steel prices, so the companies would have to pay more themselves, since men wouldn’t want to pay more.” Mr. Sanderson doesn’t know how much the boys get paid, but maybe the younger ones make 4 to 5 shillings a week.

The boys’ work is usually something their strength is enough for, so having stronger men wouldn’t help much, except sometimes when the metal is very heavy. The men don’t like not having boys to boss around because men would be less obedient. Also, boys need to start young to learn the trade. But why can’t boys learn the trade just during the day? Your guess?

Because the men work days and nights on alternate weeks, they would be separated from the boys half the time and lose half the profit they make from them. Training an apprentice is seen as part of the pay for the boys’ work, which lets the men pay less for their labor.
