He works part of the time on his own land and part on the landlord’s estate. So, there are two kinds of work time, existing side by side. In corvée labor, the extra work beyond what is needed to support the worker is clearly separated from the necessary work. But this doesn’t change how much extra work there is compared to necessary work. Three days of extra work each week don’t give the worker anything in return, whether it’s called corvée or wage labor.

Capitalists want to stretch the workday as long as possible to get more surplus labor, while landlords just try to get more days of corvée labor. In the Danubian Principalities, corvée was mixed with rent payments and other obligations, but it was the most important payment the ruling class received.

Usually, corvée didn’t come from serfdom; instead, serfdom often came from corvée. This is what happened in the Romanian provinces.

Their original way of living was based on sharing land, but not like in Slavic or Indian systems. Some land was farmed individually by members of the community, while other land was farmed together. The goods from shared land were saved for bad harvests or other emergencies and to cover public costs like war and religion. Over time, military and church leaders took over the common land and the work done on it. The free peasants’ work on this land became corvée for those leaders. This corvée turned into a kind of slavery, even if not officially, until Russia made it legal while pretending to end serfdom. The corvée law made by Russian General Kisseleff in 1831 was actually written by the landlords themselves. Russia took control of the Danubian nobles and got praised by so-called liberals across Europe.

According to the “Règlement organique,” a Wallachian peasant had to give the landlord many kinds of payments in goods, plus: (1) 12 days of general work; (2) 1 day of field work; (3) 1 day of carrying wood. That’s 14 days a year. But the working day here isn’t just a normal day; it means the amount of work needed to produce an average day’s product. The rules are so tricky that what looks like 12 days of work actually equals 36 days of real work, 1 day of field work equals 3 days, and 1 day of wood carrying equals 3 days too. So, the total is really 42 corvée days.

On top of this, there was extra work called jobagie for special occasions. Each village had to send a certain number of people for jobagie every year, which added about 14 days of work per peasant. So, the total corvée was 56 days a year.

But the farming year in Wallachia only had about 210 days because of the harsh climate. Out of these, 40 days were Sundays and holidays, and 30 days were lost to bad weather, leaving 140 working days. The corvée of 56 days compared to the 84 days needed for the peasant’s own work means about two-thirds of their working time was unpaid labor. This is less than the extra work English farm or factory workers had to do.

However, this 56-day corvée was just what was written in the law. The “Règlement organique” also made it easier to avoid these rules. After turning 12 days of work into 56 days, the actual work for each day was stretched out so part of it would have to be done the next day.
