The hand-mule spinners and self-actor mincers stopped the experiment by sending a petition to their bosses. They said, “Honestly, our lives feel like a burden. We work almost two days more every week than other workers in the country. We feel like slaves and like we are keeping a system that hurts us and future generations. So, we want to let you know that after the Christmas and New Year holidays, we will only work 60 hours a week, no more. That means working from six in the morning to six at night, with an hour and a half break.”

There were ways the law allowed people to break the rules about factory work. Leonard Horner suggested changes to the Factory Acts so inspectors could stop illegal work, which was becoming very common. Children as young as 8 years old were working from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. in some places during the past six months.

The Printworks’ Act failed to protect workers or help with education. For example, E. Potter wrote a letter to the Times newspaper in 1863, and the paper reminded him about manufacturers fighting against the Ten Hours’ Bill.

Mr. W. Newmarch, who worked on a history of prices, asked if it was really progress to give in to public opinion so easily.

The law passed in 1860 said that in dye and bleach factories, the workday should be 12 hours starting August 1, 1861, and then 10 hours from August 1, 1862—10½ hours on normal days and 7½ hours on Saturdays. But in 1862, the same problems happened again. Manufacturers asked Parliament for one more year to let young people and women work 12 hours a day. They said that during the cotton shortage, it was better for workers to work longer and earn more money. A bill was made for this, but thanks to bleachers in Scotland, it was stopped.

Because of this failure, the bosses found a way to use the law’s unclear wording to leave out some workers like calenderers and finishers. The courts supported this trick. Workers were very disappointed and complained about being overworked, and it was sad that the law didn’t work as planned because of poor wording.

"Open-air bleachers" avoided the 1860 law by lying that no women worked at night. Factory Inspectors found out the truth, and workers’ petitions showed that bleaching didn’t happen in fresh air as promised. Instead, it was done in drying rooms heated to 90° to 100° Fahrenheit, mostly by girls.

“Cooling” was the name for when these girls could sometimes get out of the hot drying rooms for fresh air. There were 15 girls working in stoves with heat from 80° to 90° for linens and 100° or more for lighter fabrics.

Twelve girls worked in a tiny room about 10 feet wide, standing around a hot stove that dried the fabrics quickly before ironing. These girls worked unlimited hours and, if busy, sometimes worked until 9 or even midnight for many nights in a row.

A doctor said no special breaks were given for cooling down. If it got too hot or their hands got sweaty, workers were allowed to go outside for just a few minutes.
