Here, without any furniture, 3 adults and 5 children were crowded together. Dunton is not worse than the rest of Biggleswade Union.

In Berkshire Beenham, in June 1864, a man, his wife, and 4 children lived in a small one-story cottage. Their daughter came home sick with scarlet fever and died. One child also got sick and died. The mother and one child had typhus when the doctor was called. The father and one child had to sleep outside. It was hard to keep the sick away from others because the village was crowded, and the sick family’s laundry was left outside waiting to be washed. The rent for the house was 1 shilling a week. One bedroom was shared by the man, wife, and 6 children. Another house rented for 8 pence a week was very small: about 14 feet long, 7 feet wide, with a kitchen only 6 feet high. The bedroom had no window, no fireplace, no door, and only opened into a small hall. There was no garden. A man lived there for a while with two grown-up daughters and one grown-up son. The father and son shared a bed, and the daughters slept in the hallway. Each daughter had a baby while living there, but one went to the workhouse to have her baby and then came back home.

In Buckinghamshire, 30 cottages on 1,000 acres of land housed about 130 to 140 people. The parish of Bradenham covered 1,000 acres and had 36 houses in 1851, with 84 men and 54 women. By 1861, there were 98 men and 87 women, an increase of 14 men and 33 women, but one less house.

In Winslow, many new houses were built in good style. There was a strong need for houses because very poor cottages rented for 1 to 1 shilling 3 pence per week.

In Water Eaton, landlords destroyed about 20% of the houses because of the growing population. A poor worker who had to walk about 4 miles to work was asked if he could find a cottage closer. He said no, because landlords did not want to rent to a man with a large family. In Tinker’s End, near Winslow, a bedroom with 4 adults and 4 children was only 11 feet long, 9 feet wide, and 6 feet 5 inches high at the tallest part. Another room was 11 feet 3 inches by 9 feet and 5 feet 10 inches high, housing 6 people. Each family had less space than a prisoner is allowed. No house had more than one bedroom and none had a back door. Water was very hard to get, and rent was from 1 shilling 4 pence to 2 shillings a week. Out of 16 houses visited, only one man earned 10 shillings a week. The amount of air each person had was like being stuck in a box just 4 feet wide in every direction all night. But the old crowded homes did have some accidental fresh air coming in.

In Cambridgeshire, Gamblingay belonged to many landlords. It had the worst cottages you can find.

Many people did straw-plaiting. There was a feeling of tiredness and hopelessness, and lots of filth. The center of the village was dirty, but the worst parts were at the north and south ends where houses were falling apart. The landlords who didn’t live there took too much money from this poor neighborhood.

Rents were very high. In one room, 8 or 9 people slept together, and in two cases, 6 adults each had 1 or 2 children all in one small bedroom.

In Essex, the number of people and houses went down in many parishes. But in at least 22 parishes, destroying houses did not stop the population from growing or stop people from moving to towns like it usually does.
