This part of the product’s value, like the £410 in our example, would be removed, but the £180, which is the new value created, including £90 of extra value (called surplus-value), would stay the same as if the original value was as high as possible. We would have C = (0 + v) = v, or the total capital C' = v + s, so C' - C = s just like before. But if s = 0, meaning the labour-power only produces what it costs, then C = c + v and C' = (c + v) + 0, so C = C'. In this case, the capital wouldn’t grow in value.

From what we learned earlier, surplus-value comes only from changes in v, the part of capital used to pay for labour-power. So, v + s means v plus some extra value added. But it’s confusing that when the variable part of capital increases, the total capital also grows—from £500 to £590. To keep things clear, we ignore the part of the product value that comes from constant capital, setting c = 0. This is just a math trick used when dealing with constant and changing amounts added or subtracted.

Another problem comes from the original value of the variable capital. In our example, C' = £410 constant + £90 variable + £90 surplus-value. But £90 is fixed, so it seems weird to call it variable. Actually, the £90 variable just shows that this value changes during production. The money spent on labour-power is a fixed amount, like its value. But during production, the £90 value is replaced by labour-power in action—dead labour is swapped for living labour, something fixed becomes something changing. This means v is reproduced plus some extra v. So, from the capitalist’s view, the process looks like the originally fixed value changing on its own because it turns into labour-power.

Both the process and the result seem to come from this value. If terms like “£90 variable capital” or “self-expanding value” seem strange, it’s because they reveal a contradiction inside capitalist production.

At first, it may seem weird to set constant capital to zero. But we do this all the time. For example, when calculating England’s profits from cotton, we first subtract the money paid for cotton from other countries. In other words, the value of the capital that just reappears in the product is set to zero.

Of course, the ratio of surplus-value to the part of capital that creates it and to the total capital is very important in economics. We will talk about this more in the third book. For one part of capital to grow by turning into labour-power, another part must be turned into tools and materials. Variable capital must work with constant capital in the right balance, depending on the kind of work. But just because tools are needed for a chemical process doesn’t mean the chemist counts them in the results. When we look at production, means of production are just the materials where labour-power, the value creator, adds its work.
