Rules about how long people can work, when they can take breaks, and when the workday starts and ends mean that factories need more machines and have to use steam power instead of just people’s muscles. Also, to make up for lost time, factories get bigger with more furnaces and buildings, and more workers come together in one place. Many factories complain that these rules mean they have to spend a lot more money to keep running like before. But small home-based industries that use kids and long hours can’t survive once these limits are set.

These small industries only stay alive by using cheap labor without limits.

For factories to work well, especially when work hours are fixed, they need to be sure they’ll produce a certain amount of stuff in a set time. The rules also assume that stopping work for breaks won’t ruin what’s being made. This is easier in machines-based industries than in those where chemical or physical processes happen, like pottery, dyeing, baking, or metal work. When there are no limits on work hours or night shifts, people think the nature of the work makes improvements impossible. But the Factory Act proves these “impossible” problems can be fixed.

Pottery makers complained the most about these “impossible” changes. But after the law was applied to them in 1864, all their problems went away within sixteen months.

New ways to make pottery, like pressing slip instead of evaporating it and using better stoves to dry the pottery, were invented. These changes saved fuel and worked better than anything done before. Even though people thought costs would go up, pottery became cheaper to make and more was produced. In fact, exports of pottery grew a lot by 1865. 

In making matches, kids used to dip them in poisonous melted phosphorus even during lunch. The Factory Act in 1864 made saving time important, so a machine was created that kept workers away from the poison.

Today, in some lace-making factories not yet covered by the law, people say meal times can’t be regular because different types of lace take different amounts of time to dry—from a few minutes to over an hour. But the people checking on child labor say this is similar to other industries where breaks were made regular without causing problems.
