A steel company owner who makes kids work at night said, “It’s normal that boys who work at night can’t sleep well during the day, so they end up running around.” A doctor explained how sunlight is really important for the body’s growth and health. He said, “Sunlight helps harden and keep the body’s tissues flexible. Animals’ muscles get soft and weak without enough light, and their nervous system doesn’t work well. For kids, having plenty of light during the day, especially sunlight, is very important for their health. Light helps create good blood and strengthens the body’s fibers. It also stimulates the eyes, which makes the brain work better.” Dr. W. Strange, a senior doctor, wrote in a letter that he had seen how night work hurt children’s health, even though some bosses said it didn’t.

That this topic caused so much argument shows how business owners think mostly about money, not about people’s well-being.

The education level of these working kids was very low, as shown by their answers in talks with officials: Jeremiah, 12 years old, said, “Four times four is 8; 4 fours are 16. A king is the one who has all the money and gold. We have a king (but was told it’s a Queen), they call her Princess Alexandra. I was told she married the Queen’s son. The Queen’s son is Princess Alexandra. A Princess is a man.” William, 12, said, “Don’t live in England. Think it is a country, but didn’t know before.” John, 14, said, “I heard God made the world, and only one person wasn’t drowned, and that one was a little bird.” William, 15, said, “God made man, man made woman.” Edward, 15, said, “Don’t know about London.” Henry, 17, said, “I went to chapel but missed many times. They talked about Jesus Christ, but I can’t say much about him. He wasn’t killed but died like others. He was different because he was religious, but others aren’t.” Some even said strange things like, “The devil is a good person,” or, “Christ was a wicked man.” One girl spelled God as “dog” and didn’t know the queen’s name.

This kind of work was the same in glass and paper factories. In paper factories, machines run at night, except for sorting rags. Sometimes, night shifts run all week from Sunday night to Saturday midnight. Day workers might work five 12-hour days and one 18-hour day; night workers might work five 12-hour nights and one 6-hour night. Sometimes, workers do 24-hour shifts on alternate days. Another system has all paper machine workers working 15 or 16 hours every day. This system, according to a commissioner, “has all the problems of both 12-hour and 24-hour shifts.” Kids under 13, teens under 18, and women worked these night shifts. Sometimes, if the person who should replace them didn’t show up, they had to work a double 24-hour shift. Evidence shows boys and girls often worked overtime, sometimes for 24 or even 36 hours straight. Girls as young as 12 worked 14 hours a day for a whole month, with only two or three short breaks for meals.
