The worker here can be compared to a tool that talks, an animal that makes some noise, and a tool that doesn’t make any sound. But the worker wants to make sure both the animal and the tool know he is different—he is a human. He feels proud that he is not like them by treating the animal badly and the tool carefully.  

Because of this, in this way of working, people only use the roughest and heaviest tools that are hard to break because they are so clumsy. In the slave states near the Gulf of Mexico before the civil war, they used old-style ploughs that dug up the soil like a pig or a mole, instead of making neat rows.  

One writer, J. E. Cairnes, explained this in 1862. Another writer, Olmsted, said he saw tools so heavy and awkward that no one paying wages would give them to workers willingly. These tools made work at least 10% harder than the ones used in the North. He was told that since slaves used tools carelessly, lighter or more delicate tools wouldn’t last a day in a Virginia cornfield.  

Also, on farms, mules were used instead of horses because horses couldn’t handle the rough treatment from slaves. Horses got sick or hurt quickly, but mules could handle being hit, missing meals, and being overworked without much damage. Olmsted even said that just by looking out his window, he could see animals being treated so badly that any Northern farmer would fire the person taking care of them right away.  

The idea that some work is skilled and other work is unskilled is partly an illusion. Sometimes, this idea still exists because of old traditions or because some workers are in such a weak position they can’t demand fair pay like others.  

Sometimes, these two types of work can switch places. For example, in countries with advanced capitalist production, the physical strength of workers has gotten worse. So, jobs that need a lot of muscle are seen as skilled compared to delicate work, which is thought of as unskilled.  

For example, being a bricklayer in England is seen as more skilled than being a damask-weaver. Even though cutting fustian (a type of cloth) requires hard work and is unhealthy, it is still considered unskilled labor.  

Also, skilled workers don’t make up a large part of the workforce. Laing estimated that in England and Wales, about 11,300,000 people made their living through unskilled work. Out of 18,000,000 people at that time, if you remove the rich, poor, criminals, and middle-class, you get about 11,000,000 left.  

Laing’s middle-class group even included some well-paid factory workers and bricklayers.  

As James Mill said, the large group of people who can only work with their hands make up most of the population.  

When people talk about labor as a way to measure value, they usually mean one specific kind of labor.
