“A man who would go around and make sure everything is done right; a man who wouldn’t be scared to be honest with himself.” 

“If you got your wish and hired less skilled inspectors, don’t you think there would be problems because of their lack of ability?”  

“I don’t think so. I believe the Government would make sure the right people are in those jobs.”  

The chairman of the committee finally interrupts, saying, “You want people who check all parts of the mine, even the tiny corners, and find the real facts... then they tell the chief inspector, who uses his science knowledge to understand the situation?”  

“Wouldn’t it cost a lot to keep all those old mine tunnels properly ventilated?”  

“Yes, it might cost money, but it would save lives.”  

A miner complains about a law from 1860. He says, “Right now, if a mine inspector finds a part of the mine unsafe, he reports it to the owner and the Home Secretary. Then, the owner has 20 days to fix it, but can refuse. If the owner refuses, he picks five engineers, and the Home Secretary chooses one or more from them to decide what happens. So really, the owner picks the person who decides.”  

A mine owner who is also an examiner asks, “But is this just a guess or a real problem?”  

“Then you don’t trust mining engineers very much?”  

“That’s unfair and wrong.”  

“Don’t mining engineers have a public role, and wouldn’t they be fair instead of choosing sides?”  

“I don’t want to say anything about their personal character, but I believe many would be biased, and it’s wrong to let them decide when people’s lives are at risk.”  

This mine owner even asks, “Don’t you think mine owners also lose from explosions?”  

Finally, he asks, “Aren’t you workers in Lancashire able to protect yourselves without the Government’s help?”  

“No.”  

In 1865, there were 3,217 coal mines in Great Britain but only 12 inspectors. A mine owner from Yorkshire said that, after their office work, inspectors could only visit each mine once every ten years.  

It’s no surprise that explosions have gotten worse over the last ten years, sometimes killing 200-300 men at once. These are the problems with “free” capitalist production!  

The weak law passed in 1872 was the first to limit the working hours of children in mines and made owners somewhat responsible for accidents.
