The way people act and talk during this market is really shameful. In England, some women have taken children from poorhouses and let anyone take care of them for 2 shillings and 6 pence a week. Even though there are laws against it, more than 2,000 boys in Great Britain are still sold by their parents to work as chimney sweeps, even though there are machines that can do the job instead. 

Because machines changed how people buy and sell labor, the English government found a reason to step in and control factories. When the law limits children’s work to 6 hours in some industries, factory owners complain. They say parents just take their kids out of those jobs and send them where there are no rules, making kids under 13 work like adults so they can be sold for more money. But since money always tries to make things equal, if children’s work is limited in one area, it eventually gets limited in others too.

We already talked about how machinery hurts the health of children, young people, and women who work in factories or other industries. Here, we focus on one big issue: many babies die in their first years of life. In different parts of England, the number of babies who die varies a lot. In some areas, for every 100,000 babies under one year old, only about 9,000 die, but in others, over 25,000 die. 

A medical study in 1861 showed that many deaths happen because mothers work far from home and can't take care of their babies properly. The babies don’t get enough food, get the wrong food, or are given medicines that aren’t good for them. Also, because the mothers are away, the bond between mother and child is weak, and sometimes babies are starved or even poisoned on purpose. In farming areas where fewer women work, fewer babies die.

But the 1861 study had a surprise. In some farming areas near the North Sea, baby death rates were as bad as in the worst factory towns. Dr. Julian Hunter was asked to find out why. People thought it was because of malaria and other diseases from marshy land. But the study showed something different: changing the land from swampy to farm fields caused the high baby death rates. Almost 70 doctors agreed on this. The new way of farming brought the industrial system to these areas.

Married women who work in groups with boys and girls are hired by a man called the “undertaker.” He makes a deal with the farmer to provide the whole group of workers for a set amount of money.
