Sometimes, the way people split up work happens because different groups, who used to work separately, start trading with each other. Other times, parts of a whole system, like organs in a body, start working on their own because they trade goods with other communities. In one case, things that were independent become dependent on each other. In the other case, things that were connected become independent.

Every well-developed way of dividing work that comes from trading goods is based on the difference between towns and the countryside. You could say the whole economic history of society is about this difference. But we won’t go into that right now.

Just like having enough workers in one place is needed to split up jobs in a factory, having enough people living close together is important for dividing work in society. But how crowded a place feels depends on how easy it is to travel and communicate. For example, some parts of the US are more crowded than India, even though India has more people, because the US has better transport.

Since making and trading goods is key to capitalism, splitting up work in factories only happens after society has already divided work to some extent. Then, the factory division of work makes society’s division of work even bigger and more complex. As tools get more specialized, the industries that make these tools also get more specialized.

If factories take over industries that used to be done together by one person, those industries split up and become independent. If a factory takes over just one step in making something, the other steps become separate industries. When a finished product is made of many parts put together, the different jobs to make those parts can become separate crafts.

To make factory work even better, one type of product is split into many smaller industries based on the raw materials or different forms of the same material.

For example, in France during the early 1700s, over 100 kinds of silk fabrics were made. In Avignon, apprentices had to focus on just one kind of fabric and weren’t allowed to learn how to make several at once. The way different parts of a country specialize in certain products gets stronger with factories, which take advantage of local strengths.

The colonial system and opening world markets during the factory era helped this division of work grow even more. We won’t talk here about how this division affects not only the economy but every part of society, causing people to focus on developing just one skill while ignoring others.
