(J. Wade, “History of the Middle and Working Classes,” pp. 24, 25, and 577.) Some people think that the difference between the past and now is because food and clothes cost different amounts. But if you look at “Chronicon Preciosum” by Bishop Fleetwood, from 1707 and 1745, you’ll see that’s not true.

87 W. Petty wrote “Political Anatomy of Ireland” in 1672, edited in 1691, page 10.

88 “A Discourse on the necessity of encouraging Mechanick Industry” was published in London in 1690, page 13.

Macaulay, who changed English history to support the Whigs and rich people, said this: “In the 1600s, it was normal for kids to start working really young, which seems unbelievable compared to how factories work today.”

In Norwich, where they made clothes, kids as young as six were expected to work. Some writers back then, even kind ones, proudly said that in Norwich alone, boys and girls who were very young made more money than they needed to live—about twelve thousand pounds a year. When we study history carefully, we see that new social problems aren’t really new. What’s new is that people today understand these problems better and want to fix them. (From “History of England,” vol. 1, p. 417.) Macaulay also could have told us that some business fans in the 1600s were happy to say that in a poorhouse in Holland, a four-year-old child worked, and this was seen as a good example in books about kindness, even until Adam Smith’s time.

It’s true that when factories replaced small workshops, child labor became more obvious. But child labor always existed among farmers, especially when they were very poor. Capitalism clearly wanted to use cheap labor, but these cases were still rare, like stories about two-headed children. That’s why people back then talked about them excitedly as special examples to follow. Macaulay also said, “Today we only hear about going backward but see only progress.” What strange eyes and ears he had!

89 One of the angriest critics of workers was the anonymous writer in “An Essay on Trade and Commerce,” London, 1770. He had written about this before in “Considerations on Taxes,” London, 1765. On the same side was Polonius Arthur Young, who talked a lot about statistics. The biggest defenders of workers were Jacob Vanderlint, who wrote “Money Answers all Things” in London, 1734; Rev. Nathaniel Forster in “An Enquiry into the Causes of the Present High Price of Provisions,” London, 1767; Dr. Price; and especially Postlethwayt, who wrote in his “Universal Dictionary of Trade and Commerce” and “Great Britain’s Commercial Interest explained and improved,” 2nd Edition, 1755. Many other writers like Josiah Tucker agreed with their facts.

90 Postlethwayt also said this in his “First Preliminary Discourse,” page 14.

91 In “An Essay,” the writer explains on page 96 what made English farm workers “happy” in 1770: “They were always working as hard as they could, couldn’t live any cheaper, and couldn’t work any harder.”

92 Protestantism changed almost all old holidays into workdays, which helped create capitalism.
