Talking about an invention used for preparing warps: “Then the unhappy workers, who thought they were safe behind the old ways of dividing work, found their positions attacked and their defenses useless because of new machine methods, and had to give up.”

About the invention of the self-acting mule, it’s said: “This machine was made to bring order among hardworking people.... It proves the idea that when money uses science, stubborn workers will always be made to obey.” Even though Ure’s book was written 30 years ago, when factories were not very common, it still shows the true spirit of factories. It does this by being openly harsh and by honestly showing the silly contradictions in the thinking of factory owners.

For example, after saying that money with science always makes stubborn workers obey, he gets angry because “science has been blamed for helping rich owners bother poor workers.” After giving a long speech about how machines help workers, he warns them that by being stubborn and going on strike, they actually speed up the building of machines.

He says, “Big fights like these show how shortsighted people are by hurting themselves.” But a few pages before, he says the opposite.

He says, “If it weren’t for fights and wrong ideas among factory workers, the factory system would have grown faster and helped everyone more.” Then he happily says, “Luckily, machines improve slowly in the cotton areas of Great Britain.” He adds that machines “lower the pay of adults by pushing some out of work, making too many workers for the jobs available. But they increase the need for child workers and raise their pay.” On the other hand, he defends low child wages by saying it stops parents from sending kids to work too early. His whole book supports really long workdays. He thinks that laws stopping kids under 13 from working 12 hours a day are like the worst times in history. But he still tells factory workers to thank fate, because machines have given them free time to think about their “important futures.”

James Mill, MacCulloch, Torrens, Senior, John Stuart Mill, and many other political economists say that every machine that replaces workers also frees up enough money to hire those same workers again.
