There is a clear social connection between people that looks to them like a connection between things. To understand this, we need to think about the mysterious world of religion. In that world, ideas created by humans seem like living beings that relate to each other and to people. The same happens with products made by people’s work in the world of goods. This is what I call the “Fetishism” of commodities, which happens as soon as things are made to be sold, and it is always part of making things to sell.

This Fetishism comes from the special social nature of the work that creates these products.

Usually, useful items become commodities only because they are made by private people or groups working separately from each other. All their work together makes up the total work of society. Since these workers don’t meet each other until they trade their products, the social side of their work only shows up during exchange. In other words, a person’s work is part of society’s work only through the relationships created by trading products, which also connect the producers indirectly. So, to the workers, the connections between their work and others’ work don’t seem like social relationships between people but like physical relationships between things. Products only get their social value when they are traded, which is different from just being useful things. This split between being useful and having value becomes important when making things mainly for trade. From then on, a worker’s job has two sides: first, it must be useful in a certain way to meet a social need and fit into society’s overall division of labor; second, it only helps the worker personally if all kinds of useful work can be traded equally with others. Making different kinds of work equal can only happen by ignoring their differences and seeing them as the same kind of human labor in general. A worker understands this two-sided nature of their work through everyday trading. This makes their work seem useful not just to themselves but to others, and all different products share one thing in common: they have value.

So, when we compare the products of our work by their value, it’s not because we see them as carrying the same kind of human labor. Actually, when we trade and say these products have equal value, we are also treating the different kinds of work that made them as equal. We don’t realize we do this, but we do. Value doesn’t come with a label explaining what it is.
