The farming in the West Indies has made a lot of money for hundreds of years, but it has also caused a lot of suffering for millions of African people. Even today, in places like Cuba, where the money made is huge and the plantation owners are very rich, the workers have to deal with the worst food, the hardest work all the time, and many of them die every year.

This story is really about you and me. Instead of talking about slave trade, think about job markets. Instead of places like Kentucky and Virginia, think about Ireland and farming areas in England, Scotland, and Wales. Instead of Africa, think about Germany. We’ve heard how working too hard made many bakers in London sick or die. Still, the London job market always had too many Germans and others ready to work in bakeries, even if it was dangerous.

Pottery is one of the jobs where people don’t live very long. Josiah Wedgwood, who invented modern pottery and started as a regular worker, told the government in 1785 that about 15,000 to 20,000 people worked in pottery. By 1861, more than 100,000 people lived in the towns where pottery was made in Great Britain.

The cotton industry has been around for ninety years, covering three generations of English workers. Sadly, it has destroyed the lives of many factory workers across nine generations. Sometimes, when there’s a lot of work, there aren’t enough workers. For example, in 1834, manufacturers told the Poor Law Commissioners to send extra people from farming areas to the north, saying the factories would use them up.

Agents were hired with the Commissioners’ permission. They set up an office in Manchester where lists of job seekers from farming areas were kept. Factory owners came to pick workers they needed, and these workers were sent to Manchester like goods, traveling by canal, carrier, or even walking. Many got lost or starved on the way. This system became like a regular business. It might sound unbelievable, but these people were sold to factory owners almost like slaves were sold to cotton growers in the US.

In 1860, when the cotton industry was booming, factory owners still didn’t have enough workers. They asked the “flesh agents” to find more people. These agents searched all over southern England but couldn’t find any extra workers because the surplus population was already used up. Newspapers said Lancashire could still use 10,000 more workers and might need 30,000 or 40,000 more.

After the agents failed to find workers on farms, a group went to London to ask Mr. Villiers, the head of the Poor Law Board, if they could get poor children from workhouses to work in Lancashire mills. This shows that capitalists usually deal with having too many people looking for work.
