When lots of workers do a job together, either working on the same task or on connected tasks, they are said to cooperate or work together. It’s like how a group of soldiers fighting together is stronger than the same soldiers fighting alone. When many people work at the same time on one job, like lifting something heavy or turning a crank, their combined effort is much stronger than if each person worked alone. Sometimes, the job can’t be done by one person alone, or it would take a lot longer or be much smaller in scale. So, working together not only makes each person more productive but also creates a new kind of power that comes from many people working as one team.

Besides this new power from combining efforts, just being around others can make people work better because they push each other to do their best. That’s why twelve people working together for a total of 144 hours can get more done than twelve people working separately for 12 hours each, or one person working for 12 days straight. This happens because people are social creatures who work better when they are with others.

Even when a group of people work on the same kind of task, each person might do a different part of the overall job. For example, if twelve masons line up to pass stones from the bottom to the top of a ladder, each one does the same action, but together they move the stones faster than if each mason climbed up and down alone. The work gets done quicker because many hands are helping. Also, if a building is worked on from different sides at the same time, the group of masons will finish much faster than one mason working alone. This is because a team has many hands and eyes working together, so different parts of the job happen at the same time.

In these examples, the workers do the same kind of work because this simple way of working together is very important, even in the most advanced teamwork. If the work is more complex, having more people means different tasks can be done by different workers at the same time, which makes the whole job finish faster. In many jobs, there are important times when certain results have to be reached. For example, a group of sheep must be shorn, or a wheat field must be harvested within a certain time to get the best results.
