The law didn’t allow children as young as 13 to work more than 8 hours a day in factories. This rule, called the Act of 1833, started working fully and stayed the same until June 1844.

During the ten years it controlled factory work, factory inspectors kept saying it was really hard to make sure the law was followed. The law let factory owners decide when kids and young workers could start, stop, or take breaks during a long workday from early morning until evening. Because of this, factory owners found a trick called the “relay system,” where workers were swapped in and out at different times to keep the machines running all the time.

This relay system basically broke the whole Factory Act, both in spirit and in the actual rules. Inspectors couldn’t keep track of each child’s work hours or meal breaks with all this complicated scheduling. Many factories went back to the old unfair ways without getting in trouble. In 1844, factory inspectors told the government it was impossible to control this new system.

But things had changed by then. Since 1838, workers had been fighting for a law to limit work to ten hours, just like they fought politically for the Charter. Some factory owners who followed the 1833 law complained that other owners were breaking the rules unfairly. Also, factory leaders wanted to get workers on their side to help fight against the Corn Laws, so they promised better conditions and supported the Ten Hours’ Bill.

Because of all this pressure, a new Factory Act was made on June 7, 1844, and started on September 10 that year. This law gave protection to women over 18, limiting their work to twelve hours and banning night work, just like for young workers. It was the first time the law officially controlled adult work hours.

The law also cut children under 13’s work time to 6½ or 7 hours a day in some cases. To stop the relay system abuse, the law said that everyone’s work hours must be counted from when the first child starts working in the morning. So, if one child starts at 8 a.m. and another at 10 a.m., they both must finish work at the same time.

The working hours were to be set by a public clock, like a railway clock, and factory owners had to put up clear signs showing the work start and end times and meal breaks.
