Around 1630, a wind-powered sawmill built near London by a Dutchman was destroyed by angry people. Even in the early 1700s, water-powered sawmills faced strong protests from workers, who were supported by Parliament, but only with a lot of trouble. In 1758, when Everet made the first wool-shearing machine powered by water, 100,000 people who lost their jobs because of it burned it down.

Fifty thousand workers who used to card wool asked Parliament to stop Arkwright’s new machines for processing wool. The big destruction of machines in England during the early 1800s, mostly because of power-looms, was called the Luddite movement. This gave the government a reason to crack down hard on protests.

It took time for workers to understand that machines themselves weren’t the problem, but how bosses used them. The fights over wages happened because factories existed, not because people wanted to stop factories from existing. The groups that tried to block new industries were the guilds and rich towns, not the workers.

Writers from the factory time saw dividing work into small tasks mostly as a way to make up for not having enough workers, not as a way to replace workers. For example, people say it would take 100 million workers using old spinning wheels to do the cotton spinning that 500,000 machines do now. But that doesn’t mean machines took jobs from real people who were there; it means machines replaced work that could only be done by many more people.

On the other hand, when we say 800,000 weavers lost jobs because of power-looms, we mean real people who used to work were replaced by machines. During this time, hand-made work was still the base of production, even if it was divided into smaller tasks.

New markets in colonies needed more products, but there weren’t enough workers in towns, so factories gave jobs to people pushed out of farming after feudalism ended. Back then, dividing work and working together in workshops was seen as a good thing because it made workers more productive.

Long before modern industry, working together and having tools controlled by a few people caused big, sudden changes in farming in many countries. These changes affected how people lived and worked in rural areas. At first, these fights were between big and small landowners, not between bosses and workers. But when tools like sheep and horses replaced workers, force was used to push workers off the land. Workers were forced out first, then animals took over farming. Big land grabs like those in England were the first step to large-scale farming and looked more like political revolutions at first.

When a tool becomes a machine, it immediately competes with the worker. The more machines there are, the more workers lose their jobs. The whole capitalist system works because workers sell their ability to work as a product.
