Chapter 31: How Industrial Capitalism Began

The start of industrial capitalism didn’t happen slowly like farming did. Many small guild leaders, independent craftspeople, and even workers turned into small business owners. Over time, by hiring workers and making more money, some became full capitalist entrepreneurs.

In the early days of capitalism, things were similar to medieval towns. Back then, escaped serfs decided who would be the boss and who would serve based on when they ran away. But this slow way didn’t fit the fast-growing world market created by big discoveries at the end of the 15th century. The Middle Ages left behind two types of capital: money made from lending (usurer’s capital) and money made from trading (merchant’s capital).

Today, all society’s wealth first goes to the capitalist. He pays rent to landowners, wages to workers, taxes to the government, but keeps the biggest and growing part of the profits for himself. The capitalist is now the main owner of the community’s wealth, even though no law officially gave him this right. This change happened because of interest on capital, even though many European laws tried to stop charging interest (usury laws). The real power of capitalists over wealth is a big change in property rights, but it wasn’t made by laws – revolutions made it happen.

Money made from lending and trading couldn’t be used for industry in feudal countries because of the feudal system and guild rules in towns. These limits disappeared when feudal society broke down and many rural people lost their land. New factories were set up at ports or places outside old town controls. In England, this caused fights between old towns and these new industrial centers.

The discovery of gold and silver in America, the killing and enslaving of native people, conquering and stealing from the East Indies, and turning Africa into a place for capturing slaves marked the start of capitalist production. These violent and unfair actions were the first steps of “primitive accumulation.” After that came the trade wars between European countries, fought all over the world. It started with the Netherlands’ fight against Spain, grew big in England’s wars, and still happens today in conflicts like the Opium Wars against China.

These early steps of building capitalism happened over time, especially in Spain, Portugal, Holland, France, and England. By the late 1600s in England, they came together into a system involving colonies, national debt, taxes, and trade protection. Some methods used force, like controlling colonies, but all used the power of the state – the government’s organized strength – to speed up the change from feudalism to capitalism and make the transition quicker.
