When a business spends more money on things like machines and tools (constant capital), this spending goes up as more workers are employed. But sometimes, this increase is smaller. The bigger the business gets, the more important this idea becomes. It gets even stronger as the business grows and saves more money.

We have seen that the way capitalism works and how workers become more productive helps the business owner use the same amount of money to hire more workers. This happens because they make workers work harder or longer. Also, the boss often replaces skilled workers with less skilled ones, adults with younger people, or men with women to get more work done for less money.

So, as businesses grow, they can get more work done with the same amount of money by using fewer workers or by hiring cheaper workers. This means they don’t always need to hire more people to get more work done.

Because of this, more workers lose their jobs faster than machines and new methods are created. The part of the business money spent on workers gets smaller compared to the money spent on machines and tools. Even though machines can do more work, businesses still try to hire more workers faster than they actually need them. The workers who have jobs often have to work very hard, which makes the number of unemployed workers grow. The unemployed workers compete for jobs, which forces the employed workers to accept tough working conditions.

One group of workers being forced to stay unemployed while others work too hard actually helps business owners make more money. This also creates a larger group of unemployed workers, called the “reserve army,” which grows as the business grows. England is a good example: even though it has many machines that save work, if everyone worked a fair amount, there wouldn’t be enough workers to keep the country’s production going. Most of the unemployed people would have to start working.

Overall, wages (pay) go up and down mainly based on how many workers are employed versus unemployed. This depends on the business cycles, which go through periods of growth and decline. Wages don’t just change because the total number of workers changes, but because the number of workers who have jobs compared to those who don’t changes. Modern industries have complicated cycles that make this happen quickly and unpredictably. Some economists wrongly think that the total population size controls jobs and wages, but it’s really about how capital (money and resources) expands and contracts, changing how many workers are needed or not.
