From my experience working with stove workers, I can say their health isn’t as good as workers in spinning factories. Some people have even said stove workers look very healthy, but that’s not true. These workers often get serious illnesses like tuberculosis, bronchitis, problems with women’s health, severe nervous disorders, and rheumatism. I think these problems happen because they work in rooms with dirty, hot air and don’t have warm enough clothes in winter when they go home.

Factory Inspectors talked about a law from 1860 meant to help workers in outdoor bleach fields. They said the law didn’t really protect workers well. It was written so confusingly that if someone worked after 8 p.m., it was hard to catch them breaking the rules or punish them. So, the law didn’t do much good. It basically let women and kids work long hours—sometimes 14 hours a day or more—with or without breaks, and didn’t care about their age, gender, or family life. This wasn’t kind or fair.

Since I wrote this in 1866, things have started to change again.

Both bosses and workers acted the way they did because of their situations. Jobs that were checked by the law were mostly those using steam or water power to make textile fabrics. To be inspected, a job had to use steam or water power and involve certain types of fabric.

There’s also useful information about small home industries in recent reports about child workers.

The laws passed in 1864 covered many different jobs, and using machines powered by steam or water was no longer required for a place to be called a “Factory” by law.

In Belgium, which is very free with its labor laws, workers of all ages and genders work in coal and metal mines without limits on hours. Out of every 1,000 workers in mines, there are 733 men, 88 women, 135 boys, and 44 girls under 16. In blast furnaces, out of every 1,000 workers, there are 668 men, 149 women, 98 boys, and 85 girls under 16. Wages are very low for all this hard work. Men earn about 2 shillings 8 pence a day, women 1 shilling 8 pence, and boys 1 shilling 2½ pence. Still, Belgium’s coal and iron exports nearly doubled from 1850 to 1863.

Robert Owen, around 1810, not only believed workers should have shorter days but actually made a 10-hour workday in his factory. People made fun of him and called his ideas crazy, like mixing kids’ education with work and creating workers’ co-op groups. But now, his ideas have become real laws, and the co-op idea is even used in official factory rules—though sometimes it’s misused by those who want to keep things unfair.
