People who have to work extra hours feel just as unfairly treated as those who have no work at all. In the area, there is almost enough work to give everyone at least some jobs if the work is shared fairly. We are only asking for what’s fair by suggesting that employers should have shorter work hours, especially until things get better. It’s not right to make some workers do overtime while others have no work and have to rely on charity.

The writer of the “Essay on Trade and Commerce” understands how having too many people looking for jobs affects those who do have work.

Another reason for people being idle in this country is that there aren’t enough workers.

When there’s a big demand for products and work is hard to find, workers realize how important they are and make their bosses feel it too. Sometimes, workers have even stopped working for a whole day to try and force their bosses to pay them more.

Between the last half of 1866, about 80,000 to 90,000 workers in London lost their jobs. But at the same time, reports said that many machines were sitting unused because there weren’t enough workers to run them. This shows that having work available doesn’t always mean there are enough people to do it right away.

In 1861, 781 towns in England and Wales had nearly 11 million people, while the villages and countryside had about 9 million. Ten years before, there were fewer towns and the population between towns and countryside was about the same. But over those ten years, the towns grew much faster than the countryside because many people moved from rural areas to towns. Three-quarters of the total population growth happened in towns.

Poverty actually seems to encourage people to have more children. Some thinkers even say this is a natural plan. Extreme poverty, even famine and disease, doesn’t stop people from having more kids; it sometimes makes the population grow. If everyone were rich and comfortable, the world might lose people instead of gaining them.

Day by day, it becomes clearer that the way the rich class runs the economy is complicated. In the same system where wealth is created, poverty is also created. While productive forces grow, forces that control and limit people also grow. The wealth of the rich class is made by destroying the wealth of many individuals and by creating a growing working class that has less and less.
