When people do work, like tailoring clothes, this work is seen as the same kind of human effort no matter what job it is. So, the work done by one person can be compared to the work done by someone else, even if they make different things, like clothes or linen. Even though each person works alone, their work is connected to everyone else’s work. That’s why the things they make can be traded for other products. This shows that private work takes on a social meaning because it can be exchanged with other products.

To understand this better, we can look back at Aristotle, a famous thinker who studied many ideas, including the idea of value.

Aristotle explained that using money to represent value is just a more developed version of an older idea: showing the value of one thing by comparing it to another random thing. For example, saying 5 beds are worth 1 house is like saying 5 beds are worth a certain amount of money. He noticed that to trade these different things, they have to be treated as equal in some way. He said that trade can’t happen without equality, and equality needs things to be comparable. But Aristotle stopped here because he thought it was impossible for such different things to really be equal. He said that this equalizing is just a practical trick, not a real fact. 

Aristotle couldn’t figure out what this “equal thing” was that made a house equal in value to beds. The answer is human labor. Both the house and beds have value because of the amount of work people put into making them.

One big reason Aristotle didn’t see this was because his society was based on slavery. People were not seen as equal, and so their work wasn’t seen as equal either. The idea that all kinds of work are equal because they are all human work only makes sense in a society where most things are bought and sold as commodities. In those societies, people relate to each other as owners of things to trade. Aristotle was smart enough to see that value means equality in some way, but because of the society he lived in, he couldn’t understand what really caused this equality.

The simplest way to understand value is to look at how one product can be exchanged for another. If commodity A can be traded for commodity B, then A’s value is shown by B, and vice versa.
