Jerome had to struggle a lot, not just when he was young with his physical desires, shown by his fight in the desert against the beautiful women he imagined, but also when he got older with his spiritual challenges.

He said, “I thought I was standing in the spirit before the Judge of the Universe.” Then a voice asked, “Who are you?” He answered, “I am a Christian.” But the great Judge shouted back, “You’re lying, you are nothing but a Ciceronian,” meaning he was more about words than true faith.

Heraclitus said, “Everything changes like fire, and fire changes into everything, just like goods are exchanged for gold and gold for goods.” (F. Lassalle wrote about this in 1858.) But Lassalle made a mistake by saying gold was only a symbol of value.

In a letter from 1878, Marx suggested fixing a sentence to say that the value of one yard of cloth is really part of all the social work put into every yard. This correction was also made in a later edition of his book “Capital,” but not written by Marx himself.

Dr. Quesnay said, “Every sale is a purchase,” or as he put it, “To sell is to buy.” Mercier de la Rivière added that “The price of one commodity can only be paid by the price of another commodity.” He also said, “To have money, you must have sold something.”

An exception is the person who actually produces gold or silver. They can trade their product directly for something else without selling it first.

Mercier de la Rivière also pointed out, “If money represents the things we want to buy, it also represents the things we sold to get that money.” Le Trosne explained, “There are four parts and three people involved in a trade, and one person is involved twice.”

Even though this is obvious, most economists don’t notice it, especially those who support free trade without questioning it.

I have talked about this before with James Mill. There are two ways some economists try to explain capitalist production. One is to treat the buying and selling of goods like simple trading, ignoring the important differences. The other is to try to hide the problems of capitalism by only looking at how goods are bought and sold.

But making and trading goods happen in many different ways in different economic systems. If we only know about the simple ideas of trading goods, we won’t understand the important differences between these systems or be able to judge them properly.
