In this text, the writer talks about different inventions, like the steam-hammer, which didn’t appear until about 50 years after he wrote about them. He wasn’t sure if steam-engines would work well for ships, but later, Boulton and Watt showed huge steam-engines for ocean steamers at the 1851 exhibition.

When tools stopped being just things people used by hand and became parts of machines, the power that made them work no longer depended on human strength. One engine could now run many machines at the same time. As more machines worked together, the system to share power got bigger and more complex.

Now, it’s important to understand the difference between many machines of the same kind working together and a full system of different machines working as one.

Sometimes, a single machine can do all the jobs that many workers used to do one after another. For example, making envelopes used to mean several people each doing a different step, like folding or putting on gum. Now, one machine can do all those steps and make over 3,000 envelopes an hour. At the 1862 London exhibition, there was an American machine that made paper cones by cutting, pasting, folding, and finishing 300 in a minute. This shows how one machine can do a whole process that used to be split up between many workers.

In a factory, many machines of the same kind work side by side, like lots of looms in a weaving factory or many sewing machines in a sewing factory. These machines all get their power at the same time from one main engine through a system that shares power with all of them. Just like many tools make up one machine, many machines of the same kind make up part of the power system.

But a full machinery system is different. It happens when a job is split into many steps, each done by a different kind of machine, all working together like a chain. This is like the way people used to work together in a factory, but now machines with special jobs replace the workers. For example, in wool making, machines do the jobs that beaters, spinners, and other workers used to do. When a machinery system is first used, the old way of making things by hand helps decide how the machines will be organized to work together.
