Chapter 1

When you have more useful things, that means you have more material wealth. For example, if you have two coats, you can give coats to two people, but with only one coat, only one person can have it. However, having more stuff doesn’t always mean the value of it goes up. Sometimes, the value can go down even if you have more things.

This happens because labor has two sides. One side is about how useful the work is, which depends on how good or productive the work is. If work becomes more productive, you get more useful things from the same amount of work. But this doesn’t change the value of the labor itself. The value depends on the time spent working, no matter how productive the work is. So, if you get more products because the work is more productive, the total value of those products might actually be less because less time was needed to make them.

Labor is both the effort people put in and the value that effort creates. On one hand, labor is just human effort, which creates the value of things. On the other hand, labor is also specific work done with a purpose, which creates useful things.

Section 3: The Form of Value or Exchange-Value

Things like iron, clothes, and food are called commodities. They are useful objects, but they are also valuable. Commodities have two parts: their physical form (what they actually are) and their value form (how much they are worth).

The value of things is different from their physical stuff. Value isn’t made of any material you can touch. If you look at a single thing by itself, it’s hard to understand its value. But value comes from society — it’s based on human labor. Value only shows up when things are compared and traded with each other.

Everyone knows that things have a value form that is the same for all, and this is shown in money. But figuring out how this money form came to be is a big challenge. No one has really explained how simple value became the money we use today. If we can understand this, we will also understand the mystery of money.
