Small groups of men living close together in tiny villages and country towns happen because many men are forced to leave the land where they used to work. Even though there are fewer farm workers, they produce more food. But this causes them to become very poor. Their poverty often leads to them being kicked out of their homes, and they end up living in bad places. This makes it harder for them to fight back and traps them under the control of landowners and farmers. Because of this, low wages become normal for them.

At the same time, even though there are always more workers than usual, the land doesn’t have enough people to work on it when extra help is needed. This is clear not just in places where many men move to cities or mines, but everywhere, especially during busy times like harvest or planting seasons when farming needs more hands.

There are always too many farm workers for regular jobs, but not enough for extra work. Because of this, official reports from the same places complain about having too many workers and not enough workers at the same time. When extra help is needed, wages don’t go up. Instead, women and children are pushed into farm work, often starting at younger and younger ages.

When women and children start working more, it creates even more poor male farm workers and keeps their wages low. In eastern England, this problem led to something called the gang system. This system is found mainly in counties like Lincoln, Huntingdon, Cambridge, Norfolk, Suffolk, and Nottingham, and some nearby areas. Lincolnshire is a good example. Much of this land used to be marshes or even underwater but was turned into farmland using steam engines for drainage. These new farms grew lots of crops and became very valuable.

But even as more farms appeared, no new houses were built for workers. Old houses were torn down, so workers had to live far away in villages, sometimes miles away, traveling long roads to get to work. These workers, called “confined labourers,” only did hard, permanent jobs with horses. There was less than one cottage for every 100 acres of farm. For example, one farmer said he had 320 acres of land but no cottages and only one worker living on his farm. Light work like weeding and hoeing was done by gangs who lived in the villages.

These gangs had 10 to 50 people, including women, teenagers (ages 13-18, although most boys stopped working at 13), and children (ages 6-13). The gang leader was always a regular farm worker, usually someone considered unreliable, maybe a bit wild and often drunk, but also clever and good at organizing.
