Vivian asked, “If a law was made to stop children under 14 from working, wouldn’t parents just find other jobs for their kids, like in factories?” The answer was, “Not usually.” Kinnaird said, “Some boys work as doorkeepers?” The reply was, “Yes.” He asked, “Is there a big rush of air every time the door opens or closes?” The answer was, “Yes.” Kinnaird said, “It sounds easy, but it’s actually pretty painful.” The boy is trapped there just like in a jail cell. Vivian asked, “If a boy has a lamp, can he read?” The answer was, “Yes, if he has candles. But if he’s caught reading, he’d probably be scolded. He’s there to do his job first and foremost, and reading isn’t allowed down the mine.”

II. Education. The miners want a law that makes schooling for their kids compulsory, like in factories. They say the 1860 law, which says boys aged 10 to 12 need a school certificate before working, doesn’t really work. The witnesses’ answers about this were funny.

“Is the law meant to control bosses or parents more?” “Both, I think.” “Can you say which one more?” “No, I can’t.” “Do bosses want boys’ work hours to be short enough so they can go to school?” “No, the hours never get shorter for school.” Mr. Kinnaird asked, “Do miners usually improve their education after they start working, or do they lose what they learned?” The answer: “They usually get worse. They pick up bad habits like drinking and gambling and ruin themselves.”

“Do they try to have night schools?” “Only a few mines have night schools, and only a few boys go, but they’re too tired for it to help.” The boss said, “So you are against education?” The answer: “No, not at all.” “But do bosses have to ask for school certificates?” “Yes, by law. But I don’t think they actually do.” “So the law about certificates isn’t really followed in mines?” “No, it isn’t.” “Do the workers care about education?” “Most of them do.” “Are they eager to see the law enforced?” “Yes, most are.” “Do you think any law will work here unless the people help to make it happen?” “Some men might not want to hire a boy, but they’d be singled out for it.” “By whom?” “By their employers.” “Would employers be unhappy with a man who followed the law?” “I think so.” “Have you ever heard of a worker refusing to hire a boy between 10 and 12 who couldn’t read or write?” “No, workers don’t get to decide.”
