There were laws that said anyone who wandered around asking for money was called a rogue or vagabond. Local judges could have them whipped in public. The first time it happened, they could be put in jail for 6 months, and the second time for 2 years. While in jail, they could be whipped as much as the judges wanted. If someone was seen as a dangerous troublemaker, they had to be branded with an "R" on their shoulder and made to do hard work. If they begged again, they could be killed without mercy. These laws stayed in effect until the early 1700s.

Similar laws existed in France. By the mid-1600s, there was a big group of beggars in Paris. At the start of King Louis XVI’s rule, any healthy man aged 16 to 60 without a job or money had to be sent to work on ships called galleys. Other places like the Netherlands had similar laws to punish beggars and keep people working.

Many farmers were forced off their land and homes, turned into beggars, and then punished harshly by these cruel laws. This was done to make sure they followed the strict rules needed for the new wage system where people worked for money.

It’s not just that all the money and jobs are controlled by a few rich people while many others only have their ability to work to sell. It’s also not enough that workers have to sell their work willingly. Over time, the system teaches workers to accept their situation as normal or natural. The way capitalism works breaks down any resistance. Since there are always more workers than jobs, wages stay low to fit what the rich want.

The economic system forces workers to depend on the rich bosses. Sometimes the bosses use force, but usually, workers are controlled by the “natural” rules of the system, meaning they have to depend on capital to survive. When capitalism first started, the rich used government power to control wages, make workers work longer hours, and keep them dependent.

This was an important part of how capitalism first grew.

The group of workers who sold their labor started to form in the late 1300s but were a small part of the population. They were protected by independent farmers and craft guilds. Masters and workers lived close together socially. At this time, workers were only loosely controlled by bosses because the system wasn’t fully capitalist yet. There was more money spent on wages than on machines. As capitalism grew, the need for workers went up fast, but the number of workers increased slowly. Much of the country's wealth still went to workers to live on.
