Piece-work means getting paid for each thing you make instead of for the time you work. This usually makes some workers earn more than average, but it can also bring the average wage down. Sometimes, when the piece rate has been set for a long time and it’s hard to lower it, bosses would force workers to switch to getting paid by the hour. For example, in 1860, ribbon-weavers in Coventry went on a big strike because of this. Piece-work is closely linked to the system of hourly wages talked about before. 

Piece-work fits well with how capitalism works. It’s not new—both piece-work and hourly pay were in French and English laws back in the 14th century. But piece-work became more common during the early days of industry. Between 1797 and 1815, it helped bosses make workers work longer hours and get paid less. Reports from that time show wages kept going down during the anti-Jacobin War. For example, in weaving, piece wages got so low that even with longer workdays, workers made less money each day than before.

A cotton weaver’s real earnings dropped a lot. At first, their pay was much better than regular workers, but later the difference almost disappeared. The extra work from piece wages wasn’t very helpful for farm workers either. Most farm jobs were paid by the day or by piece-work, with weekly wages around 12 shillings. Even if piece-work pay was a bit higher, workers often lost jobs during the year, so overall they didn’t make more money. Their wages usually matched the cost of living so that a man with two kids could support his family without needing help from charity.

Malthus, a thinker from that time, worried about piece-work becoming too common. He said working 12 to 14 hours a day doing hard work was too much for anyone. In factories with laws controlling work hours, piece wages became normal because bosses could only get more work done by making workers work harder. Since how fast workers made things changed, the same number of products could take more or less time. This meant piece wages went up or down too because they showed how much work time was needed. For example, making 24 items in 12 hours was worth 6 shillings.
