This pamphlet became really popular because it suited certain political groups. People in the UK who supported the French Revolution liked it a lot. The “principle of population,” which was figured out slowly during the 1700s and then loudly announced during a big social crisis as the perfect answer to ideas like those of Condorcet, was welcomed by the rich English leaders. They saw it as a way to stop people from hoping for human progress.

Malthus, surprised by how famous he got, started filling his book with bits and pieces of information put together quickly, and added some new stuff that he didn’t actually discover but took from others. Also, Malthus was a priest in the English State Church and had taken a vow not to marry—this was a rule for holding a Fellowship at Cambridge University. This made him different from other Protestant priests who ignored the celibacy rule and had lots of kids, even though they told workers about the “principle of population.” It’s interesting that questions about sex and population were mostly handled by Protestant priests. Besides Malthus, there were others like Parson Townsend and Parson Wallace who wrote about population. Most of the people who taught this theory were Protestant priests, except for a clever Venetian monk named Ortes.

At first, Political Economy was studied by philosophers like Hobbes, Locke, and Hume, and by business people and leaders like Thomas More and Franklin. Doctors also studied it well, like Petty and Quesnay. Even in the mid-1700s, the Reverend Mr. Tucker, a well-known economist, apologized for getting involved in money matters. But later, with the “Principle of population,” Protestant priests took over this field. Petty thought population was the key to wealth and didn’t like priests much. He said religion works best when priests don’t have too much power, just like the law works best when lawyers aren’t too involved. He warned priests not to have more ministers than there were church jobs because extra priests would try to make a living by convincing people that the current ministers were bad and misleading them.

Adam Smith also had issues with the Protestant priests of his time. For example, Dr. Horne, a bishop, criticized Smith because Smith praised his friend David Hume, who didn’t believe in religion and tried to get rid of it. The bishop was angry that Smith called Hume wise and good even though Hume hated religion and wanted to erase it from people’s lives.
