Some didn’t have any morphine at all.

G. B. Newnham, a lawyer, wrote about this in 1815 in a review of evidence about the Corn Laws.

The landlords, on their side, not only protected themselves during the Anti-Jacobin War, which they fought for England, but also got really rich.

Their rents went up a lot—sometimes doubled, tripled, or even quadrupled. In one case, rents increased six times in just eighteen years.

Friedrich Engels wrote about the working class in England and mentioned this.

Classical economists didn’t fully understand how work creates value because they didn’t analyze the labor process deeply enough. Ricardo, for example, said that a million people always produce the same value in manufacturing, no matter what. This is true only if the amount and intensity of work stay the same.

But Ricardo missed that a million workers with different skills can make very different amounts of products and value. So, the value of what they produce can change a lot.

Ricardo tried to explain to J. B. Say the difference between use value (usefulness) and exchange value (what something is worth in trade), but Say disagreed.

Say said production is like a trade, where people give their labor, land, and capital to get products. The more useful things they get in return, the richer they are.

Say was trying to solve a problem Ricardo raised: why doesn’t the value of products go up when workers get better at making more stuff?

Say’s answer was that exchange value depends on trade, so if production makes more useful things, you get more exchange value.

For example, if a worker makes more stockings in a day, the stocking maker is richer in stockings.

But Say also noticed that when there are more stockings, their price goes down because producers have to sell them for what they cost to make, thanks to competition.

So, where does the profit come from if things sell at cost?

Say just said that because of better productivity, everyone now gets two pairs of stockings instead of one for the same amount of work.
