Superintendence is here completely dispensed with.” (Cairnes, l.c., pp. 48, 49.) 17 Sir James Steuart, a writer altogether remarkable for his quick eye for the characteristic social distinctions between different modes of production, says: “Why do large undertakings in the manufacturing way ruin private industry, but by coming nearer to the simplicity of slaves?” (“Prin. of Pol. Econ.,” London, 1767, v. I., pp. 167, 168.) 18 Auguste Comte and his school might therefore have shown that feudal lords are an eternal necessity in the same way that they have done in the case of the lords of capital.
 
 19 R. Jones. “Textbook of Lectures,” &c., pp. 77, 78. The ancient Assyrian, Egyptian, and other collections in London, and in other European capitals, make us eye-witnesses of the modes of carrying on that co-operative labour.
 
 20 Linguet is improbably right, when in his “Théorie des Lois Civiles,” he declares hunting to be the first form of co-operation, and man-hunting (war) one of the earliest forms of hunting.
 
 21 Peasant agriculture on a small scale, and the carrying on of independent handicrafts, which together form the basis of the feudal mode of production, and after the dissolution of that system, continue side by side with the capitalist mode, also form the economic foundation of the classical communities at their best, after the primitive form of ownership of land in common had disappeared, and before slavery had seized on production in earnest.
 
 22 “Whether the united skill, industry, and emulation of many together on the same work be not the way to advance it? And whether it had been otherwise possible for England, to have carried on her Woollen Manufacture to so great a perfection?” (Berkeley. “The Querist.” London, 1751, p. 56, par.
 
 521.) Chapter 14: Division of Labour and Manufacture Section 1: Two-Fold Origin of Manufacture That co-operation which is based on division of labour, assumes its typical form in manufacture, and is the prevalent characteristic form of the capitalist process of production throughout the manufacturing period properly so called.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
