The long break between the first part and the next happened because I was sick for many years, which kept stopping my work again and again.  

The main ideas from that earlier work are summed up in the first three chapters of this book. This is done not just to connect things and make the book complete. The way the ideas are explained is better now. When possible, many points that were only mentioned before are explained more clearly here, while some points that were fully explained before are only briefly touched on now. The parts about the history of value and money theories are left out completely this time. But if you read the earlier book, you’ll find extra notes in the first chapter with more info about the history of those ideas.  

Starting something new is always hard, especially in science. Understanding the first chapter, especially the part about breaking down what commodities are, will be the hardest part.  

The parts about understanding what value really is and how much it is, I tried to make as easy to understand as possible. The “value-form,” which fully shows itself in money, is actually very simple. But for over 2,000 years, people have tried and failed to understand it fully. At the same time, they have at least partly figured out more complex things. Why? Because studying a whole body is easier than studying its tiny cells. When we study economic forms, we can’t use microscopes or chemicals. Instead, we have to think deeply and clearly. In capitalist society, the value-form of a product is like the basic cell of the economy. To someone only looking quickly, studying these forms might seem like focusing on tiny details. It really is about tiny details, but they are as important as those studied in microscopic anatomy.  

Except for the part about value-form, this book shouldn’t be called difficult. I expect readers to be willing to learn new things and to think for themselves.  

A physicist looks at physical events where they happen clearly and without problems. Or they do experiments in conditions that make the event happen normally. In this book, I have to study the capitalist way of producing things, and the conditions that go with it. So far, the best example of this is England. That’s why I use England as the main example for my ideas. But if a German reader thinks the English workers have it really bad or feels better because things aren’t so bad in Germany, I have to say, “This story is about you too!” It’s not just about how developed or undeveloped these social problems are. It’s about the laws of capitalism themselves, which work like iron forces pushing toward certain results. A country that is more industrially developed just shows less developed countries a picture of what their future will be.
