Back in the 1800s, a system called the half-time system helped create a new machine for piecing cotton threads. The word “wretch” was used to describe farm workers in political economy.

Sometimes, machines couldn’t be used until wages (the pay for work) went up. In 1863, a social science meeting in Edinburgh talked about these issues.

During the American Civil War, there was a cotton crisis. Dr. Edward Smith was sent by the English government to check on the health of cotton workers. He found that, even though the factory work stopped, this break had some good effects. Women had more time to breastfeed their babies instead of giving them harmful medicines. They also had time to learn how to cook, though sadly, they often had no food to cook. This showed how business took over work that families used to do at home. The crisis was also used to teach girls how to sew in schools. So, because of a big world event, girls who spun cotton for the world also learned to sew.

More workers were needed, so female and especially child workers replaced male adult workers. For example, three 13-year-old girls earning 6 to 8 shillings a week could replace one man who earned 18 to 45 shillings. Since mothers still had to take care of babies, they had less time for housework like sewing and mending. Instead, families bought ready-made clothes. This meant less work at home but more money spent, making it harder to manage family expenses. Also, cooking and using food wisely became very difficult. Lots of information about these problems was hidden in official reports about factories and public health.

Interestingly, men workers fought to reduce the working hours for women and children in factories. But reports from the Children’s Employment Commission showed that some parents treated their children terribly, almost like slaves, by sending them to work. Capitalist bosses criticized this cruelty, even though they caused and benefited from it, calling it “freedom of labor.” Child labor was forced on kids who were too weak and uneducated, putting them in bad physical and moral conditions. A historian once said that when Jerusalem was destroyed, it was no surprise because even mothers sacrificed their own children out of extreme hunger.

These facts came from official reports and studies that showed how harsh life was for working children and their families during that time.
