From the evidence, it was clear that with careful planning, the expected problems would be solved. So, according to clause 6 of section 6 of the Factory Acts Extension Act, passed this session of Parliament, manufacturers were given eighteen months from when the Act was passed before they had to follow the new meal hour rules.

Right after the Act was passed, manufacturers realized: “The problems we thought would happen because of the Factory Acts didn’t actually happen. Our work wasn’t slowed down; in fact, we made more in the same amount of time.” It shows that the English lawmakers, who aren’t known for being super smart, learned from experience that a simple law can fix the issues people thought would stop the working day from being controlled.

When the Factory Act is introduced in an industry, there’s a time period of six to eighteen months for manufacturers to fix any technical problems to follow the law. Mirabeau’s quote, “Impossible! ne me dites jamais ce bête de mot!” fits modern technology well. But while the Factory Acts help change the manufacturing system into the factory system, they also force small business owners to spend more money, which makes small businesses close and big companies get bigger.

Besides technical problems that can be fixed, workers’ irregular habits also make it hard to control work hours. This is especially true when workers are paid per piece, and if they lose time one day, they try to make it up by working extra hours or at night. This kind of working hurts adult workers and their families.

This irregular work schedule happens because workers rebel against boring, repetitive work, but it also comes from a chaotic system where bosses exploit workers without limits. Besides normal ups and downs in business, there are also “seasons” based on good times of the year for shipping, fashion trends, or sudden big orders that must be done quickly. These sudden orders happen more now because of railways and telegraphs.

“The railway system growing all over the country means buyers now visit warehouses less often but place small orders that need to be done right away, instead of buying from stock like before. Years ago, we could work during slow times to be ready for the next season, but now no one knows what the demand will be.”

In factories not yet covered by the Factory Acts, workers often face extreme overwork during the “season” because of sudden large orders.
