This is how farms were taken over little by little. And this is how it actually happened for many years in this country.

Because of this, life got worse for most poor people. They went from owning small pieces of land to working as hired laborers. At the same time, it became harder for them to earn enough to live.

In fact, when common lands were taken away and farming changed, agricultural workers suffered a lot. Even Eden, a writer at the time, said that between 1765 and 1780, their wages dropped below what they needed to survive. They had to get help from the government just to get by. Their pay was barely enough for basic needs.

Now, let’s hear from someone who supported taking the land and disagreed with Dr. Price. He said that people wouldn’t become fewer just because they no longer worked their own land. If small farmers had to work for others instead, the country would actually benefit. More work would be done on one big farm, making more crops. This extra food would help make more goods in factories, which would help the country grow.

The calm way some economists accept the unfair stealing of land and the suffering it caused shows how much they believed this was needed for capitalism. Sir F. M. Eden, who cared about people but was also a conservative, said that all the thefts and problems from taking land between the 1400s and 1700s were just part of fixing the right balance between farm land and pasture.

He explained that in the 14th and 15th centuries, there was a lot more farm land than pasture. But by the 16th century, this changed until there was finally three acres of pasture for every acre of farm land, which he called the “right” balance.

By the 19th century, people had forgotten that farm workers used to share common land. No one from the farming community got paid back for the 3,511,770 acres of common land taken from them between 1801 and 1831. This land was taken by law and given to landlords.

The last big step in taking land from farm workers was called the “clearing” of estates, meaning pushing people off the land. All the ways of taking land before led to this “clearing.” As we saw earlier, when there were no more small farmers left, landlords started clearing the workers’ homes too. So farm workers didn’t even have a place to live on the land they worked.

But what “clearing of estates” really means is best seen in the Scottish Highlands.

There, it was done in a very planned way and on a huge scale, all at once. In Ireland, landlords sometimes removed several whole villages at once. In Scotland, they cleared areas as big as small countries in Germany. The land was owned in a special way that helped landlords take it.

The Highland Celts lived in clans, and each clan owned the land they lived on. The clan leader, called the chief or “great man,” was only the official owner of the land, kind of like how the Queen of England is officially the owner of all the land in the country.
