Chapter 24 Section 5: The So-Called Labour Fund

It has been shown that capital is not a fixed amount. Instead, it is part of the wealth of society that changes all the time. This happens because the extra value created is split between income and more capital. Even if the amount of working capital stays the same, the labor, knowledge, and natural resources involved give capital some flexibility. This lets it work in ways that don’t depend only on its size.

In this discussion, we ignored how money moves around in the economy, which can make the same amount of capital work better or worse. We also assumed capitalism grows on its own, without smart planning to use resources and workers better.

Classical economics always thought of social capital as a fixed amount with a fixed efficiency. This idea came from Jeremy Bentham, a very strict thinker of the 19th century. Bentham’s ideas made it hard to understand things like sudden growth or shrinkage in production, or even how capital builds up.

Bentham and others like Malthus and James Mill used this idea to defend capitalism. They especially claimed that the part of capital used to pay workers, called variable capital, was a fixed amount.

The material part of variable capital, meaning the goods workers need to live on (called the labour fund), was thought to be a separate, fixed part of social wealth, ruled by natural laws.

To use the tools and machines (constant capital), you need a certain amount of workers. This number depends on technology. But how many workers are needed to make full use of this labor power can change, depending on how much each worker is pushed to work. Also, the price of labor power is not fixed, only its minimum limit, and this limit can change a lot.

The reasons behind this old idea are these: workers don’t get to decide how social wealth is split between themselves and non-workers. And only in rare cases do workers have the power to increase the labour fund by taking from the rich’s income.

You can see how silly this idea is in Professor Fawcett’s words. He says, “The circulating capital of a country is its wage-fund. So, if we want to find out the average wage, we just divide the total wage money by the number of workers.”

This means first adding up all the wages paid, then pretending this total is a fixed amount set by nature, and finally dividing it by the number of workers to see how much each should get on average. It’s a tricky way to explain things.

Still, Fawcett also said that the wealth saved each year in England is split into two parts: one part is used as capital to keep industries running, and the other part is sent abroad.
