When machines were first introduced, their goal was to make all machinery perfect, cheaper, and to encourage new inventions and improvements. One of these machines, used in London to shape big paddle-wheel shafts, is called “Thor.” It can shape a shaft weighing 16½ tons as easily as a blacksmith making a horseshoe.

Most wood-working machines that can be used on a smaller scale were invented in America.

Science usually doesn’t cost business owners much money, but that doesn’t stop them from using it for their benefit. They take credit for the science and work of others, just like they do with labor. But owning science or wealth is very different. Dr. Ure complains that many factory owners don’t understand mechanical science well, and Liebig talks about how English chemical manufacturers don’t know much about chemistry.

Ricardo focuses a lot on how machines affect work, but sometimes he forgets that machines add value to products. He treats machines like natural forces. Adam Smith agrees that natural forces and machines do work for us, but since they work for free, they don’t add value that can be traded. Ricardo’s point is right, especially against J. B. Say, who wrongly thought machines help make profits by creating value.

A horse-power means a force that can lift 33,000 pounds one foot in one minute. This is the horse-power talked about here. People often talk about “nominal” and “commercial” or “indicated” horse-power for engines. The old “nominal” horse-power was based only on the size of the engine parts and ignored steam pressure and how fast the parts move. It meant the engine would have a certain power if it worked like old engines from Boulton and Watt’s time.

But today, engines work with much higher steam pressure and faster piston speed. To measure real engine power, an indicator shows steam pressure, and piston speed is measured. The “indicated” or “commercial” horse-power is calculated using all these factors together. This means one “nominal” horse-power can actually be three, four, or five times more powerful in real life. This helps explain some examples in the following pages.

People who think like business owners might expect machines to add “interest” based on their cost to the product. But since machines don’t create new value like labor does, they can’t add value as “interest.” When talking about surplus value (extra profit), we can’t just assume interest exists. The way business owners calculate this, which seems strange at first, will be explained later in this book.

The value machines add gets smaller when machines replace horses and other animals used only to move things, not to change their form. It’s worth noting that Descartes thought of animals as machines, which made sense during the manufacturing era, while in the Middle Ages, animals were seen as helpers to people, like later explained by Von Haller.
