Because these connections with markets all over the world exist, the need for workers grows, especially in different kinds of transportation jobs.  

As tools and ways to produce goods and food improve, and the number of workers drops a bit, there’s more need for people to build things like canals, docks, tunnels, and bridges. These projects take a long time to finish and show results.  

New types of work also appear because of machines and big changes in industry. But even in the most advanced countries, these new jobs aren’t very common yet. The number of workers in these new fields depends on how much these industries need simple manual labor.  

Some of the main new industries are gas works, telegraphs, photography, steam ships, and railways. In 1861 England and Wales, for example, there were 15,211 people working in gas, 2,399 in telegraphs, 2,366 in photography, 3,570 in steam ships, and 70,599 in railways. Out of those in railways, about 28,000 were unskilled workers and office staff. Altogether, about 94,145 people worked in these five new industries.  

Finally, modern industry is super productive and uses workers in many ways. This allows more people to work in jobs that don’t produce things directly, like servants. These include male and female servants, butlers, and similar roles.  

In 1861, England and Wales had over 20 million people—about 9.7 million men and 10.3 million women. If you take out those who are too old or young to work, women and kids who don’t work, government workers, priests, lawyers, soldiers, people living off rent or interest, and the very poor or criminals, about 8 million people are left. This number includes every business owner involved in industry or finance.  

Among these 8 million are: agricultural workers, including over 1 million farm helpers and servants; people working in factories that make cotton, wool, silk, and other fabrics; workers in coal and metal mines; and those in metal factories like blast furnaces and rolling mills.  

The total number of people working in textile factories and mines is about 1.2 million. Those working in textiles and metal industries together are about 1 million. In both cases, this is fewer than the number of modern domestic servants.
