We will come back to later ideas from the same Commission. These ideas wanted to take away the “freedom” of all important parts of English industry, except farming, mining, and transportation.

Section 7: The Fight for a Normal Workday. How English Factory Laws Affected Other Countries.

Remember, the main goal of capitalist production is to make extra profit by making workers work more than necessary. This happens no matter how work is organized or controlled by the owners.

So far, we have only talked about workers who are independent and can make their own deals with bosses. If we look at history, modern industry and the work of young workers who aren’t adults are important examples of worker exploitation, but just parts of the bigger picture.

From the facts we have, we can see two things:

First, capitalism’s hunger for longer working hours started in early industries powered by water, steam, and machines. These industries, like cotton, wool, flax, and silk spinning and weaving, pushed work hours to extreme lengths. Society then stepped in with laws to limit and regulate work hours and breaks. These laws were unusual at first during the early 1800s.

Once this new way of working was set up, other industries also had to follow the factory system. Even old crafts like pottery, glass-making, baking, and home industries like nail-making became controlled by capitalists like factories. Laws had to change and stop being special rules for only some places. In England, for example, any house where work was done was called a factory by law.

Second, the history of work-hour rules in some industries and ongoing fights in others show that individual workers, even if “free” to sell their labor, have little power against capitalism once it grows strong. Creating a normal workday was a long, hidden battle between bosses and workers. This fight started where modern industry began – in England.

English factory workers were leaders not just for England but for workers everywhere. Their thinkers were the first to challenge capitalism’s ideas.

Because of this, the factory expert Ure said it was shameful for English workers to call the Factory Acts “slavery” when they fought bravely for “perfect freedom of labor.”
