If workers are paid fairly for their work, there are two ways to increase the extra value they create: either by making the workday longer or by changing how much time they spend on necessary work versus extra work. But to change these things without lowering wages, the work has to be more productive or more intense.

If a worker spends all their time making enough to live, they have no time left to work for free for others. Without being productive enough, they can’t have extra time to create surplus work, and without that, there are no capitalists, slave-owners, or big landowners. So, surplus value is based on something natural: it’s possible for one person to do the extra work for another, just like it’s possible for one person to harm another. This idea isn’t magical; it comes from history and how societies have changed over time.

At the start of civilization, work wasn’t very productive, and people’s needs were small. Only a few people lived off the work of others, but as work became more productive, that group grew bigger. Capitalism and its systems developed slowly over thousands of years, based on this history, not nature.

Besides how advanced society is, work is limited by physical conditions like human biology and the environment. These include natural resources for food, like good soil and fish, and resources to make tools, like rivers, wood, and metals. In early times, food resources mattered most. Later, things like tools and energy sources became more important. For example, England had more of these resources than India, just like ancient Athens and Corinth compared to the Black Sea area.

If people have fewer needs and live in places with good soil and climate, they need less time to support themselves. This means they can spend more time working for others. Long ago, Diodorus noticed this about the ancient Egyptians.

He said it’s amazing how little effort it took to raise their children. They fed them simple foods like roasted papyrus stems and marsh plants, sometimes raw, sometimes cooked.
