In 1864, the Privy Council ordered an investigation into the living conditions of farm workers, and in 1865, they looked into how poor people in towns were living. Dr. Julian Hunter’s important work on this can be found in reports from 1865 and 1866 about public health. I will talk about the farm workers later. For now, here is a general comment from Dr. Simon about town housing.

He said that even though his job focused on physical health, everyone should care about the other problems too. When houses are very crowded, it leads to a lack of privacy and cleanliness that is almost animal-like. People living like this lose their dignity, and children born into these conditions start life in a very tough and unfair way. It’s very hard for people living like this to hope for a better life with clean and healthy surroundings. London has the worst overcrowded housing that is not suitable for people at all.

Dr. Hunter agrees with two main points. First, there are about 20 big groups in London, each with around 10,000 people, living in terrible conditions caused mostly by bad housing. Second, these houses are more crowded and run-down now than 20 years ago. He says life in parts of London and Newcastle is almost like living in hell.

Also, more well-off workers, small shop owners, and lower middle-class people in London are getting stuck in these bad housing conditions. This happens because old streets and houses are being torn down for “improvements,” factories and people are moving into the city, and rent prices are going up.

Rents have gotten so high that most workers can only afford one room. Almost no houses in London are free from many middlemen who make money from the property. Land prices in London are very high compared to the money they make each year, so buyers try to sell the land again at a higher price or hope to make a big profit if something big is built nearby. This has created a business where people buy small parts of leases and try to get as much rent as possible from tenants while they can, leaving little for the next tenant.

Rents are paid weekly, and these landlords don’t take risks. Because of railroad building in the City, some families have been seen on Saturday nights wandering around East London with their few belongings, having nowhere to stay except the workhouse. The workhouses are already overcrowded, and the government’s plans to improve things have only just started.
