Preface to the Fourth German Edition (Engels, 1890)

For the fourth edition, I had to finalize both the main text and the footnotes as perfectly as possible. This short explanation will show how I did that.

After checking the French edition and Marx’s notes again, I added some parts to the German text from that translation. You can find these additions on pages 80, 458-60, 547-51, 591-93, and 596 in this edition. I also followed the French and English editions by moving a long footnote about miners directly into the text. Other changes I made were mostly small technical fixes.

I also added a few more notes to explain things better, especially where history had changed. These new notes are inside square brackets and marked with my initials or “D. H.” Meanwhile, the English edition had a full check of all the quotes. Marx’s youngest daughter, Eleanor, compared all the quotes with the original sources, so those from English works are now given in the original English, not as translations from German.

Because of this, I had to check the English edition carefully. I found some small mistakes, like wrong page numbers, misplaced quotation marks, some awkward translations, and a few quotes from old notebooks where Marx used French translations of English works, which changed the meaning a bit. But anyone who compares this edition with the older ones will see that these fixes did not change the book in any important way. There was only one quote I couldn’t find, from Richard Jones. Marx probably wrote the book’s title wrong. All other quotes are accurate or even better now.

Now, I have to tell an old story.

I know of only one time when someone said Marx’s quote was wrong. But since this happened after Marx died, I can’t ignore it here.

On March 7, 1872, an anonymous article called “How Karl Marx Quotes” appeared in a Berlin newspaper linked to the German Manufacturers’ Association. It claimed, with a lot of anger and rude language, that Marx had faked a quote from Gladstone’s Budget Speech of April 16, 1863. This quote appeared in the International Workingmen’s Association’s 1864 address and again in “Capital,” Volume 1. The article said not a single word of the sentence “this intoxicating augmentation of wealth and power...” was true.
