Mr. R. Baker, the Factory Inspector, says, “Recently, I had to take legal action against a cotton mill owner who, during these hard times, unfairly took 10 pence from some young workers for a doctor’s certificate, even though it only cost 6 pence. By law, he was only allowed to take 3 pence, and usually, nothing at all. I also heard about another owner who charges poor children a shilling each as a fee for teaching them how to spin cotton, right after the doctor says they are fit to work. 

These kinds of unfair actions might be reasons why workers go on strike, especially now. Without knowing this, people don’t understand why strikes happen.” He was talking about a strike by power-loom weavers in Darwen in June 1863.

The Factory Acts have helped protect workers from dangerous machines, which is good. But there are new dangers now because machines run faster than they did twenty years ago. Wheels, rollers, and spindles spin quicker, so workers have to be faster and more careful when fixing broken threads. If they hesitate, they can get hurt. 

Many accidents happen because workers rush to finish their jobs quickly. Manufacturers want machines running all the time to keep making yarn and cloth, and workers who get paid by how much they make also want the machines to keep going. Even though many factories forbid cleaning machines while they are moving, workers still do it because they want to keep working. This has caused 906 accidents in six months.

Cleaning is done every day, but mostly on Saturdays. Since workers don’t get paid for cleaning, they try to do it fast. That’s why more accidents happen on Fridays and Saturdays. On Fridays, accidents are almost 12% higher than on other days, and on Saturdays, they are 25% higher. When you count the shorter working hours on Saturdays, accidents are actually 65% higher than other days.

In another part of this book, I will talk about how English manufacturers have fought against laws that protect workers from dangerous machines. For now, here’s a quote from Leonard Horner, an official: “Some mill owners don’t take accidents seriously. For example, they say losing a finger is no big deal. But a worker’s job and future depend a lot on their fingers. I ask owners if they would hire someone who lost a thumb or finger over someone who didn’t, and they always choose the one without injuries.”

The manufacturers don’t like these safety laws because they think people are just being overly kind or foolish.
