But people who love the truth shouldn’t give up. Atheism can’t last forever. Adam Smith was really bad because he spread atheism all over the place through his book, “Theory of Moral Sentiments.” Overall, Doctor, your idea is good, but I don’t think you’ll win this time. You try to convince us, using David Hume as an example, that atheism is the best way to cheer up sad people and to stop being afraid of death. You might laugh at Babylon falling apart and celebrate Pharaoh’s defeat in the Red Sea.

One religious guy who knew Adam Smith wrote after Smith died: “Smith cared a lot about Hume, and that stopped him from being a Christian. When he met honest people he liked, he would believe almost anything they said. If he had been friends with Horrox, he might have believed the moon sometimes disappeared in a clear sky without any clouds. He also believed in republican ideas about politics.” Parson Thomas Chalmers thinks Adam Smith made up the idea of “unproductive workers” just for Protestant pastors, even though they do good work for the church.

The limit to hiring workers and laborers is the same: the employer has to make a profit from their work. If the wages are so high that the employer’s profit is less than usual, they will stop hiring or only hire if wages go down.

If we think back to the start, where we saw that capital (money or assets used to make more money) is just the result of human work, it’s hard to understand how people ended up controlled by capital, which they themselves created. They became slaves to it. Von Thünen asked this question, which was smart, but his answer was pretty simple and not very good.

Adam Smith wrote “Enquiry into the Nature of ...” in Volume I.

In the latest times, big companies called “trusts” are trying to join all the big businesses in one industry into one huge company that controls everything.

Marx made a note in his book about how if a business only grows bigger in size, profits will grow in the same way. But if growing bigger changes the business in a new way, the profit rate on the bigger business can also go up.

The census in England and Wales shows that from 1851 to 1861, the number of people working on farms went down by about 87,000. In worsted (a type of wool) making, the number of workers dropped from around 103,000 to 79,000. In silk weaving, workers dropped from about 112,000 to 102,000. Calico-printing workers went up a little from 12,098 to 12,556, but this small increase is actually a big drop compared to how much the industry grew.
