Gaining just one extra hour a day by adding small bits of time before 6 a.m., after 6 p.m., and around meal times is almost like working 13 months in a year.

Even when there are problems that stop production and factories only work part of the week, this doesn’t stop the working day from getting longer. When business is slow, companies try to make more profit from the work that is done. The less time workers have, the more they have to work hard during that time.

A Factory Inspector said about the crisis from 1857 to 1858: “It might seem strange that workers are overworked when business is bad, but bad times make some employers push workers to work extra for more profit. Leonard Horner said 122 mills closed and 143 were still running, but workers were still made to work more than the legal hours.” Mr. Howell also said, “Because business was bad, many factories closed or worked less, but I still got many complaints that workers lost half an hour or more of their break time each day.”

The same thing happened on a smaller scale during the cotton crisis from 1861 to 1865. Sometimes workers were made to work during meal breaks or other illegal times because they wouldn’t leave the factory on time, especially on Saturday afternoons. But if they stayed after machines stopped, it showed there wasn’t enough time set aside for cleaning before or after work.

Many bosses couldn’t resist the extra profit they got by making workers work more than allowed. They hoped not to get caught, and when they did, the fines were small compared to the money they made. It was hard for inspectors to prove these small time thefts during the day.

These small amounts of time taken from workers’ meals and breaks were called “petty pilferings of minutes,” “snatching a few minutes,” or by workers themselves “nibbling and cribbling at meal-times.” It was clear that making extra profit by making workers work more was no secret.

One respected employer told me, “If you let me work just ten minutes extra a day, I could make a thousand pounds a year.” Every moment counted as profit.

It’s interesting that workers who did a full day were called “full-timers,” while kids under 13 who worked only six hours were called “half-timers.”
