These factory owners are smart people, and it’s no surprise they supported the slave-owners’ rebellion.

In factories that have followed the Factory Acts for a long time, which limit working hours and have other rules, many old problems have disappeared. New and better machines also mean the buildings have to be improved, which helps the workers.

In the past, workers and factory owners were always fighting. Owners tried to get work done as cheaply as possible, using any trick they could. Workers tried to push back to get better pay. Sometimes, workers even fought violently against machines, like the Sheffield file cutters did in 1865.

Sir James Steuart thought of machines as a way to increase the number of workers without needing to feed more people. Someone else, Petty, even said machines replace “polygamy,” which is a strange idea. This kind of thinking mostly fits some parts of the United States. But usually, machines don’t save time for just one person because building the machine takes too long. Machines only really help when they can do the work of many people at once. That’s why machines are common in crowded countries where lots of people can work together. Machines don’t appear because there are fewer workers, but because it’s easy to get many workers to work at the same time.

In Germany, big farms only became common after breaking up large estates starting in the 1500s, especially after 1648.

Machines and workers are always competing with each other.

Before the Poor Law of 1833 in England, hand-weaving and power-weaving competed for a long time. Wages for hand-weavers dropped below what they needed to live on, so they got extra help from local government money. For example, in 1827, a church leader in a factory area explained that power-looms had replaced hand-looms, but hand-weavers kept working for less pay because they got help from poor relief. This meant the competition between hand-weaving and power-weaving was kept alive by charity money. This forced workers to go from being proud and independent to relying on charity just to survive. People called this only a “temporary problem.”

The same thing that can make a country richer...
