Imagine a factory owner who hires 100 workers, paying each of them £30 a year. So, he spends £3,000 a year on wages. Now, imagine he fires 50 of these workers and uses machines that cost him £1,500 instead. Let's ignore other costs like buildings or fuel for now. The raw materials still cost £3,000 a year, just like before.

Does this change free up any money? Before, the owner spent £6,000 total: half on machines and materials, and half on workers' wages. After the change, he spends £4,500 on machines and materials (£3,000 on raw materials and £1,500 on machines) and only £1,500 on wages. Now, only a quarter of the total money goes to paying workers instead of half. So, instead of freeing money, some of it is tied up in machines and no longer spent on workers.

With £6,000, the owner can now only hire 50 workers. If the machines get better, he will need even fewer workers. If the machines had cost less, say £1,000 instead of £1,500, then £500 would be saved. That £500 could pay about 16 of the fired workers, but probably fewer, because some of that money would have to be spent on machines too.

Now, suppose making the new machines gives jobs to some mechanics. Does that make up for the carpet workers who lost their jobs? Not really, because building machines usually needs fewer workers than the number of workers the machines replace. The £1,500 that used to pay the fired carpet workers is now spent on building machines, paying mechanics, and profit for the machine makers.

Machines don’t need to be replaced often. So, to keep the mechanics busy, more factories will replace workers with machines over time, causing more job losses.

Some people argue that this freeing of workers is a good thing because the machines also free up money that the fired workers could use to live on. But really, the machines take away the workers’ ability to earn money. Saying machines “free up” money for workers just sounds nicer, but it means the workers lose their jobs and the money they earned.

This idea assumes the money used to pay the workers was being used to make more money, and once the workers are fired, that money looks for new workers to pay. The theory says eventually the fired workers will find new jobs and everything will balance out.
