65 When people save way more money than usual, it usually means that goods aren’t being bought or sold as much, and things aren’t moving smoothly in the economy.

66 1 The question — Why can’t money just show exactly how many hours of work it represents, like a paper saying “this equals x hours of work”? — is really the same as asking why products have to be things you can buy and sell. This is clear because if products are things you can buy and sell, they have to be different from money and from each other. Or, why can’t work done for yourself be treated the same as work done for everyone? I’ve looked closely at the idea of “labour-money” before. For example, Owen’s “labour-money” isn’t really money any more than a ticket to a show is money.

Owen assumes people work together directly, which doesn’t fit with a system where things are made to be sold. A certificate showing how much you worked just proves your part in the shared work and your right to some of the shared products to use. But Owen never thinks about making things to sell and using money at the same time to avoid the rules of that system.

2 People who live in less developed societies use their tongues differently. Captain Parry said that on the west coast of Baffin’s Bay, when people trade, they lick the item twice before agreeing on the trade. The Eastern Esquimaux do the same. Since the tongue is used in the North to claim things, it’s no surprise that in the South, the stomach is seen as the place where wealth is kept, and that a Kaffir judges someone’s wealth by how big their belly is. The Kaffirs know what they’re doing — while an official British health report in 1864 showed many workers didn’t get enough fat in their diet, a doctor named Harvey made money selling recipes to help rich people lose extra fat.

3 See Karl Marx’s work: “Zur Kritik, &c.” “Theorien von der Masseinheit des Geldes,” pages 53 and following.

4 “Whenever gold and silver have both been legally used as money or as a way to measure value, people have always tried—and failed—to treat them as exactly the same thing.

Thinking that there’s a fixed ratio between how much gold and silver equals a certain amount of work means thinking that gold and silver are basically the same stuff, and that a certain amount of silver is always a fixed part of a certain amount of gold. From King Edward III’s time to King George II’s time in England, money history was full of problems caused by the government fixing the gold-to-silver value ratio, which didn’t match their real values. Sometimes gold was valued too high, other times silver was. The metal that was valued too low was taken out of use, melted down, and sold abroad. Then the government changed the ratio again, but the new ratio soon clashed with reality. More recently, the small drop in gold’s value compared to silver (because of demand for silver in Indo-China) caused the same issues in France, where silver was exported and pushed out of use by gold. Between 1855 and 1857, France imported much more gold than it exported and exported much more silver than it imported. In places where both gold and silver are legal money and people can pay with either, the metal that becomes more valuable gets a premium price. Like any product, its price is measured in the other metal, which ends up being the real standard of value.
