An English worker can make a lot more stuff in the same amount of time than a worker from another country. This is enough to make up for the fact that English workers put in 60 hours a week, while workers in other countries work 72 or even 80 hours. One way to make working hours more equal between England and other countries would be to pass a law that shortens the working day in factories abroad.

There are some things that balance out the effects of the Ten Hours' Act, which limits work hours. Scientists have found that you can tell how much work someone has done in a day by looking at changes in their body. Earlier translations made a mistake about the cost of something, but that has been fixed after checking old versions.

The price of food and how much people work don’t always match perfectly, but they can't be too far apart. When workers try harder during times when things are expensive, wages often go down. This hard work is good for individuals and helps businesses grow, but no one would want people to work that hard all the time. It’s okay as a temporary fix, but if it goes on forever, it would be like a country running out of food because everyone is pushed to their limit. Malthus deserves credit for pointing out that longer work hours matter, even though others like Ricardo ignored this fact.

However, Malthus and the people he supported didn’t realize that making workdays longer, using more machines, and making women and kids work a lot would eventually create too many workers with no jobs, especially after wars end and England loses its control over world markets. It was easier for the ruling classes, who Malthus supported, to blame this “overpopulation” on natural laws, rather than on how capitalism actually works.

During the war, the amount of money businesses made mostly came from workers pushing themselves harder and facing tough conditions. More women and kids had to work, and men had to spend more time producing goods because of these challenges. 

We have also learned that the rate of surplus-value can be shown using different formulas, with surplus-value and surplus labor being key parts.
