Comparing the writings of Chancellor Fortescue and Thomas More shows a big difference between the 15th and 16th centuries. As Thornton says, the English working class suddenly went from a good time to a really hard time without any warning.

Laws were scared of this big change. Back then, people didn’t think that making money by using workers badly and making them poor was the main goal of the country. In his history of Henry VII, Bacon says that around 1489, more and more farmland was being changed into sheep pastures. This land didn’t need many people to take care of it, so many families lost their farms. This caused towns, churches, and the community to shrink. To fix this, the king and parliament made laws to stop people from turning farms into big pastures that pushed people out.

One law in 1489 said that farms with at least 20 acres couldn’t be destroyed. Another law during Henry VIII’s time repeated this and said that a few rich men owned most of the sheep and land. This made land rent go up, farming go down, and many people lost their homes and jobs. The law said broken-down farms should be rebuilt, and there should be a balance between land for growing crops and for pasture. A law in 1533 even said that no one could own more than 2,000 sheep, because some people had as many as 24,000.

For 150 years after Henry VII, both the people and the laws tried to stop rich people from taking all the land from small farmers and peasants, but they failed. Bacon explains why: Henry VII wanted farms to be big enough for a family to live well and work their own land, not as hired workers. But the growing capitalist system wanted most people to be poor workers who had to sell their labor, not own land.

During this time, laws also tried to keep small farmers from losing their 4 acres of land next to their cottages. They even stopped these workers from renting out parts of their homes. In 1627, a man named Roger Crocker was punished for building a cottage without 4 acres of land. Even in 1638, the government tried to make sure cottages had land attached. In Cromwell’s time, no house could be built within 4 miles of London unless it had 4 acres. In the early 1700s, people still complained if a farm worker’s cottage didn’t have 1 or 2 acres of land. Today, these workers might only have a small garden or some land far away. Dr. Hunter said landlords and farmers worked together to keep workers from having enough land to be independent.

In the 16th century, this process of taking land from people got worse because of the Reformation. The Catholic Church owned a lot of land before, but when monasteries were closed, many church workers lost everything and became poor workers themselves.
