From the busy crowd of workers of all kinds, ages, and genders, who push past us more quickly than the souls of the dead in a story, we notice right away who is overworked. Let’s look at two people who show that before money, all workers are treated the same – a milliner (someone who makes hats) and a blacksmith.

In the last week of June, 1863, all the London newspapers printed a shocking story called “Death from simple over-work.” It was about Mary Anne Walkley, a 20-year-old milliner working in a fancy dress shop run by a woman named Elise. The sad, often-told story was told again. Mary Anne worked around 16 and a half hours a day, and sometimes up to 30 hours straight during busy times, without a break. She kept going by drinking sherry, port, or coffee. It was the busiest season, and she had to make beautiful dresses very quickly for rich ladies going to a ball for the new Princess of Wales.

Mary Anne worked nonstop for 26 and a half hours with 60 other girls, all packed into a room that didn’t have enough fresh air. At night, they slept two to a tiny, stuffy room divided by thin boards. And this was considered one of the best dress shops in London. Mary Anne got sick on Friday and died on Sunday, surprising Madame Elise because Mary Anne hadn’t finished her work. The doctor said she died because of long hours in an overcrowded workroom and a small, badly aired bedroom. To be rude to the doctor, the jury said she died from a stroke but might have died faster because of overwork and the crowded room.

The Morning Star, a newspaper, called these workers “white slaves” who are worked to death, mostly quietly suffering. But it’s not just dressmakers who work themselves to death; it happens in many places where business is busy. Let’s look at the blacksmith as an example. Poets say blacksmiths are strong and happy; they start early, eat, drink, and sleep well. When they work in a healthy way, they are in a great physical position.

But if we watch a blacksmith in the city, we see the pressure of work on his strong body and how it affects his chances of dying. In Marylebone, blacksmiths die at a rate of 31 per 1,000 people each year, which is 11 more than the average for all adult men in the country. The job itself is a natural part of human skill and a good kind of work, but when there is too much work, it destroys the man. A blacksmith can hit a certain number of blows, walk a certain number of steps, breathe a certain number of breaths, and live about 50 years. But if he is forced to do more work every day, he ends up shortening his life by a quarter.
