When we compare the prices of things made by hand with those made by machines, we usually see that machines add more value because of the tools they use. But even though the value added by the tools is bigger compared to the product’s total value, the actual amount of value added by the tools goes down. For example, in making yarn, the part of the value from tools goes up compared to the total value, but the total amount goes down.

If it takes as much work to make a machine as the machine saves, then the total work to make a product doesn’t really change. The machine just moves the work around without making it less. But the machine’s usefulness isn’t about how much it costs compared to what it replaces. As long as the work spent on making the machine is less than the work saved by using it, the machine is helpful. So, we can measure a machine’s usefulness by how much human work it replaces.

For example, Mr. Baynes says 2 workers are needed to run 450 spinning machines (called mule spindles) powered by one horse. Each spindle works for 10 hours and makes 13 ounces of yarn. Together, 2.5 workers spin about 366 pounds of yarn in a week.

This means turning 366 pounds of cotton into yarn only takes 150 hours of work, or 15 days of 10-hour shifts. But if a person uses a spinning wheel by hand, making 13 ounces takes 60 hours. So, the same cotton would take 2,700 days or 27,000 hours of work to spin.

In printing, machines have also made a huge difference. One machine with one worker can print as much cloth with four colors in one hour as 200 people could before.

Before 1793, cleaning cotton by hand took a whole day for one pound. After Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin, one person could clean 100 pounds a day. This invention made cotton cheaper and more profitable.

In India, people use a tool called a churka to clean cotton. One man and one woman can clean 28 pounds a day with it. Later, Dr. Forbes invented a better machine that lets one man and one boy clean 250 pounds a day. If these machines are powered by animals or water, only a few kids are needed to run them. Sixteen machines powered by oxen can do as much work in a day as 750 people used to do.

A steam-plough can do the work of 66 men in just one hour and costs only three pence to run, while paying 66 men for an hour costs 15 shillings. But the 15 shillings doesn’t show the full value of the work these men do in an hour.

If those 66 men produce goods worth 30 shillings in one hour, but only get paid 15 shillings, that means their wages cover only half the value they create.

Now, imagine a machine costs as much as paying 150 men for a year, say £3,000. This money doesn’t represent all the work those men did, just the part that went into their pay. The machine’s price, though, includes all the work spent to make it, no matter who got paid or made profit.

So even if a machine costs as much as the workers it replaces, the work built into the machine is still much less than the living work the machine takes over.
