If we think that this way of producing things is fixed forever by Nature for every type of society, we miss what makes value special, and also what makes commodities, money, and capital what they really are.

Because of this, economists who agree that labor time measures value still have very weird and confusing ideas about money, which is the most developed form of value. This shows up clearly when they talk about banking, where simple definitions of money don’t work anymore. This caused some people to bring back old mercantile ideas, seeing value as just a social idea or even a ghost of that idea. 

I want to say that by classical Political Economy, I mean the study of real production relations in capitalist society since W. Petty’s time. This is different from “vulgar economy,” which only looks at appearances, keeps repeating old scientific ideas, and tries to explain obvious things just to help everyday business people. But mostly, it just organizes boring ideas and treats the comfortable beliefs of the rich class as if they were the absolute truth.

Economists have a strange way of thinking. They believe there are only two kinds of institutions: those made by humans and those that come from nature. They say feudal institutions are artificial, but capitalist ones are natural. They are like theologians, who say only their own religion comes from God, while all others are made up by people. So, history happened once, but now it doesn’t anymore.

It’s funny when M. Bastiat thinks ancient Greeks and Romans only lived by stealing from others. But if people steal for centuries, there must be things to steal, so things have to be made again and again. This means even Greeks and Romans had some kind of production system, an economy, which was the real base of their world, just like capitalism is for ours. Or maybe Bastiat means that a system based on slavery is just a form of stealing. If a great thinker like Aristotle was wrong about slave labor, why should a small-time economist like Bastiat be right about paid labor?

Now, I want to respond to a German paper in America that criticized my work from 1859. They said my idea that each way of producing things and the social relations that go with it form the real base for laws and politics is true for our time, but not for the Middle Ages or ancient Athens and Rome. They say religion ruled the Middle Ages and politics ruled ancient times. First, it’s strange to think no one knows these common ideas. But it’s clear the Middle Ages couldn’t survive on religion alone, nor could the ancient world on politics alone. Instead, the way people made a living explains why religion was important in one place and politics in another.

Finally, anyone who knows a little history of the Roman republic knows that its real story is the story of land ownership.
