There are two important things that need to happen. First, the cotton and spindle have to work together to make something useful; in this case, they have to become yarn. The value doesn’t depend on what the product is exactly, but it has to be part of something useful.

Second, the time spent on making the yarn can’t be longer than what’s really needed in society. So, if only 1 pound of cotton is needed to spin 1 pound of yarn, then you have to make sure you don’t use more than that. The same goes for the spindle. Even if the boss wants to use a gold spindle instead of a steel one, only the work needed to make a steel spindle counts for the value, because that’s all that’s necessary.

Now, we know how much of the yarn’s value comes from the cotton and the spindle. It’s worth twelve shillings or the value of two days’ work. The next thing to figure out is how much value the spinner’s work adds to the cotton.

We have to think about the spinner’s work in a different way than before. Before, we saw it as the action that changes cotton into yarn. The better the spinner was at their job, the better the yarn. The spinner’s work was different from other jobs because it had a special goal—spinning—and used special tools and materials. For example, cotton and spindles are needed for spinning, but they wouldn’t help if you were making cannons. 

But now, when we look at the spinner’s work only as a way to create value, it’s no different from the work of someone making cannons or the people who plant cotton or make spindles. All these jobs are part of the total value of the yarn, just in different amounts. Here, we don’t care about the type or special qualities of the work, only how much work is done. And this can be measured.

We assume spinning is simple and doesn’t require special skills. Later, we’ll see that even if this isn’t true, it won’t change much.

While the spinner is working, their work changes from just moving their body to actually making something. After one hour of spinning, you have a certain amount of yarn. This means one hour of work has been put into the cotton. We call it labour, which means the spinner’s effort, not just the specific action of spinning because what matters here is the effort, not the exact type of work.

It’s very important that the time used to turn cotton into yarn is only what’s needed by society. If normally one hour of work turns a pounds of cotton into b pounds of yarn, then 12 hours of work only counts if 12 a pounds of cotton become 12 b pounds of yarn. Only the socially necessary time counts for creating value.

Now, the raw material and product look different than before. The raw material is just something that takes in a certain amount of work.
