The sentence “... is ... entirely confined to classes of property” was found in the semi-official record in Hansard. But this sentence is not in Gladstone’s speech. Actually, the opposite is said there. (In bold): “This sentence, both in form and meaning, is a lie added by Marx."

Marx, who got the Concordia issue the next May, answered the anonymous writer in the Volksstaat on June 1st. Since he couldn’t remember which newspaper he used for the quote, he shared the same quote from two English papers, and then from The Times. According to The Times, Gladstone said: “That is the situation about the country’s wealth. I must say, I would be worried and upset about this big increase in wealth and power if I thought it only belonged to rich classes. This ignores the working people’s situation. The increase I described, based on accurate data, is completely limited to property-owning classes.”

So Gladstone says he would be sorry if it were only rich people getting richer, but it actually is true: this big increase in wealth and power is all with the property-owning classes. About the semi-official Hansard, Marx said: “In the version later changed by Gladstone, he was smart enough to remove this part, which was embarrassing coming from an English finance minister. This is a usual practice in the English parliament, not something made up by little Lasker against Bebel.”

The anonymous writer got angrier. In his reply in Concordia on July 4th, he ignored second-hand sources and said it’s normal to quote parliamentary speeches from stenographic reports. But he also said that The Times report (which has the “faked” sentence) and the Hansard report (which leaves it out) mostly agree, and The Times also has “the exact opposite” of the famous sentence. He didn’t mention that The Times clearly includes that same “notorious” sentence along with the opposite one.

Still, the anonymous writer felt stuck and needed a new trick to save himself. So, while his article is full of insults like “bad faith,” “dishonesty,” “lying allegation,” “fake quote,” and “infamous,” he changed the subject and promised “to explain in a second article what we (the honest anonymous writer) think Gladstone really meant.” As if his opinion mattered at all. This second article appeared in Concordia on July 11th.

Marx answered again in the Volksstaat on August 7th, this time also sharing reports from the Morning Star and the Morning Advertiser from April 17, 1863. Both papers said Gladstone would be worried about the big increase in wealth if he thought it was only for “classes in easy circumstances.” But actually, the increase was “entirely confined to classes with property.” So these papers repeated exactly the sentence called a “lie.” Marx also showed again, by comparing The Times and Hansard, that this sentence, which three newspapers printed the next day with the same wording, was missing from the Hansard report, which was changed as usual. Gladstone, to use Marx’s words, “had made it disappear afterwards.”
