The ratio of fixed to variable costs changes a lot depending on how much machines are used in different jobs. For example, more men had to work in coal and metal mines because of the growth of factories in England. But in recent years, this number hasn’t grown as fast because new machines are being used in mining.

With machines, a new kind of worker appears: the person who makes the machines. We’ve already seen that machines are being used more and more in making other machines.

When it comes to raw materials, the fast growth of cotton spinning helped cotton grow a lot in the United States. This also increased the African slave trade and made breeding slaves a big business in some southern states. In 1790, there were 697,000 slaves in the U.S., but by 1861, there were almost four million. At the same time, English wool factories and turning farm land into sheep pastures caused too many farm workers. Many of these workers moved to cities to find jobs. Ireland, which lost nearly half its population in the last 20 years, is still shrinking its population to fit the needs of landlords and English wool makers.

When machines are used at early or middle steps of making things, more materials are made, and more workers are needed to use those products. For example, machines made yarn so cheaply that hand-loom weavers could work full time and earn more money at first. This brought many people into cotton weaving until the 800,000 weavers made by machines like the Jenny and the mule were replaced by power-looms. Similarly, more tailors, seamstresses, and needleworkers appeared because of lots of machine-made clothes, until the sewing machine took over.

As machines help a small number of workers make huge amounts of raw materials and tools, jobs get divided into many different parts. The factory system makes this division of labor much bigger than traditional craft work and makes industries much more productive.

The main effect of machines is to increase surplus value (extra profit) and the amount of goods made with that profit. As rich people and their workers get more stuff, their wealth grows. Since fewer workers are needed to make basic things, new and fancy desires arise, and people find ways to fulfill those wants. More goods are turned into extra products, and more of these extra products are made into luxury items. The variety and quality of products also improve because of new trade connections worldwide. Not only do more foreign luxury items get traded for local goods, but more foreign raw materials and parts are used to make things at home.
