In some countries, workers try to do too many different jobs at once. Sometimes they work in farming, then in business, and sometimes they do two or three jobs at the same time. In free countries, they often join public meetings and get involved in politics. But in Egypt, workers get punished if they try to interfere in government or if they do several jobs at once.

Because of this, Egyptian workers can focus better on their main job. Also, since they learn many rules from their parents, they want to find new ways to improve their work.

The Indian loom is set up so the threads stand up straight, not flat.

Darwin said that when one body part has many jobs, it can change shape more easily. But if a part has only one job, it needs to be shaped perfectly for that job. For example, a knife that cuts many things can have one shape, but a tool made for one specific job must have a special shape.

In 1854, Geneva made 80,000 watches, which was less than a fifth of what the area of Neufchâtel made. The town La Chaux-de-Fond, which is like a big watch factory, made twice as many watches as Geneva every year. Between 1850 and 1861, Geneva made 720,000 watches. Making watches is hard because the parts are tiny and delicate, and watches are fancy items. Each watch is different, and even the best London watchmakers make fewer than a dozen the same in a year. The Vacheron & Constantin factory uses machines and makes only three or four different sizes and styles.

Watchmaking is a good example of how work gets divided into many special jobs.

When many people live close together, using carts to carry things is harder.

Separating the steps of making things by hand makes production more expensive because moving things from one step to the next wastes time.

Dividing work into parts saves time because many steps can happen at once. For example, many pins can be finished in the same time it would take one person to just cut or sharpen a single pin.

The more different workers there are in making something, the more organized the work is, and it takes less time and effort.

Still, many industries don’t do this perfectly because they can’t always control the chemical and physical parts of making things well.
