Political Economy, as its own science, first appeared during the time when manufacturing was becoming important. It looks at the way work is divided in society only from the point of view of manufacturing. It sees this division of work mainly as a way to make more products with the same amount of work, which means products get cheaper and money (capital) grows faster.

This focus on making more and cheaper products is very different from how ancient writers thought. They cared only about the quality and usefulness of things. Because different parts of production are separate, products get better, and people choose jobs that fit their talents. Without some limits, nothing important can be achieved anywhere. So, both the product and the worker get better because work is divided.

Sometimes they mention making more stuff, but only to point out that there are more useful things. They don’t talk about making things cheaper or about money value. Plato also looked at division of work this way, seeing it as the base for social classes. Xenophon was more focused on how work is divided inside workshops. Plato’s idea of division of work in his book Republic was really just a Greek version of Egypt’s caste system, which many Greeks admired. Egypt was seen as a model industrial country even during the Roman Empire.

During the manufacturing era, when manufacturing was the main way capitalist production worked, there were many problems stopping manufacturing from growing fully. Manufacturing split workers into skilled and unskilled groups and arranged them into classes. But because skilled workers had more power, the number of unskilled workers stayed small. Manufacturing adjusted jobs to fit the strength and skills of workers, including women and children, but male workers often resisted this.

Breaking down crafts into smaller parts made training cheaper and workers less valuable, but harder tasks still needed long apprenticeships. Even when this wasn’t really needed, workers made sure apprenticeships stayed long. For example, in England, apprenticeship laws lasting seven years stayed strong until the start of Modern Industry.

Because craft skills were the base of manufacturing and the whole system depended on workers, business owners had to constantly deal with workers not following orders.

“Because of human nature,” says Ure, “the more skilled a worker is, the more stubborn he is, and this makes him bad for a system where he could cause big problems.” So, during the whole manufacturing period, bosses complained that workers were hard to control. If we didn’t have reports from that time, we could still see from facts that between the 1500s and Modern Industry, bosses couldn’t control all the workers’ time. Manufacturing businesses didn’t last long and often moved to different countries with workers moving too. These facts tell us a lot.
