Some export businesses in Bradford say that boys working in factories don’t need to work longer than from 8 a.m. to 7 or 7:30 p.m. The only reason they work late is because there aren’t enough machines or space. If factory owners weren’t so greedy, they wouldn’t make boys work overtime. Buying extra machines would fix this problem.

A London factory owner says that strict rules about work hours protect workers and also help factory owners compete with big buyers. The pressure comes from customers who want their goods shipped at certain times to save money or get ahead of competitors. One factory owner says this problem could be solved if factories were bigger, which would happen if the government made a law about it.

Experiments show that when a healthy person breathes, they use about 25 cubic inches of air each breath and take about 20 breaths per minute. In one day, a person breathes about 416 cubic feet of air. But once air is breathed out, it can’t be used again until nature cleans it. A healthy person gives off about 1,300 cubic inches of carbon dioxide every hour, which adds up to 8 ounces of solid carbon in a day. So, each person should have at least 800 cubic feet of fresh air.

According to the English Factory Act, children under 14 can’t work in factories unless they also get basic education. Factory owners must follow this rule. Education is required and is part of the work conditions.

Combining exercise, like gymnastics and drills for boys, with mandatory education for factory children has shown great results. This was shared by N. W. Senior at a social science meeting and in factory inspection reports.

A silk factory owner told the Children’s Employment Commissioners that the best way to have good workers is to combine education and work from a young age. The work shouldn’t be too hard or unhealthy, but mixing work and play helps children learn better. He even wished his own kids could work a little while going to school to make learning more interesting.
