And even the little God may he find, who is dearest to maidens: beside the well lies he quietly, with closed eyes.
 
 Truly, in broad daylight did he fall asleep, the sluggard! Had he perhaps chased butterflies too much?
 
 Upbraid me not, you beautiful dancers, when I chasten the little God somewhat! He will cry, certainly, and weep - but he is laughable even when weeping!
 
 And with tears in his eyes shall he ask you for a dance; and I myself will sing a song to his dance: A dance-song and satire on the spirit of gravity my supreme, most powerful devil, who is said to be "lord of the world."And this is the song that Zarathustra sang when Cupid and the maidens danced together: Of late did I gaze into your eye, O Life! And into the unfathomable did I there seem to sink.
 
 But you pulled me out with a golden angle; derisively did you laugh when I called you unfathomable.
 
 "Such is the language of all fish," said you; "what they do not fathom is unfathomable.
 
 But changeable am I only, and wild, and altogether a woman, and no virtuous one: Though I be called by you men the 'profound one,' or the 'faithful one,' 'the eternal one,' 'the mysterious one.' But you men endow us always with your own virtues - alas, you virtuous ones!" Thus did she laugh, the unbelievable one; but never do I believe her and her laughter, when she speaks evil of herself.
 
 And when I talked face to face with my wild Wisdom, she said to me angrily: "you will, you crave, you love; on that account alone do you praise Life!" Then had I almost answered indignantly and told the truth to the angry one; and one cannot answer more indignantly than when one "tells the truth" to one's Wisdom.
 
 For thus do things stand with us three. In my heart do I love only Life and truly, most when I hate her!
 
 But that I am fond of Wisdom, and often too fond, is because she reminds me very strongly of Life!
 
 She has her eye, her laugh, and even her golden angle-rod: am I responsible for it that both are so alike?
 
 88 And when once Life asked me: "Who is she then, this Wisdom?
 
