One thing is more necessary than the other, so say you yourself: well, one thing is now more necessary to me than all others.
 
 A word at the right time: didst you not invite me to table? And here are many who have made long journeys. you do not mean to feed us merely with discourses?
 
 Besides, all of you have thought too much about freezing, drowning, suffocating, and other bodily dangers: none of you, however, have thought of my danger, namely, perishing of hunger-" (Thus spoke the soothsayer. When Zarathustra's animals, however, heard these words, they ran away in terror. For they saw that all they had brought home during the day would not be enough to fill the one soothsayer.) "Likewise perishing of thirst," continued the soothsayer. "And although I hear water splashing here like words of wisdom - that is to say, plenteously and unweariedly, I - want wine!
 
 Not everyone is a born water-drinker like Zarathustra. Neither does water suit weary and withered ones: we deserve wine - it alone gives immediate vigour and improvised health!" On this occasion, when the soothsayer was longing for wine, it happened that the king on the left, the silent one, also found expression for once. "We took care," said he, "about wine, I, along with my brother the king on the right: we have enough of wine, - a whole ass-load of it.
 
 So there is nothing lacking but bread." "Bread," replied Zarathustra, laughing when he spoke, "it is precisely bread that hermits have not. But man does not live by bread alone, but also by the flesh of good lambs, of which I have two: -These shall we slaughter quickly, and cook spicily with sage: it is so that I like them. And there is also no lack of roots and fruits, good enough even for the fastidious and dainty, - nor of nuts and other riddles for cracking.
 
 Thus will we have a good repast in a little while. But whoever wishes to eat with us must also give a hand to the work, even the kings. For with Zarathustra even a king may be a cook." This proposal appealed to the hearts of all of them, save that the voluntary beggar objected to the flesh and wine and spices.
 
 "Just hear this glutton Zarathustra!" said he jokingly: "does one go into caves and high mountains to make such repasts?
 
 Now indeed do I understand what he once taught us: Blessed be 221 moderate poverty!
 
