Surprised and pale does it stand - before the rosy dawn!
 
 For already she comes, the glowing one, - her love to the earth comes!
 
 Innocence, and creative desire, is all solar love!
 
 See there, how she comes impatiently over the sea! Do you not feel the thirst and the hot breath of her love?
 
 At the sea would she suck, and drink its depths to her height: now rises the desire of the sea with its thousand breasts.
 
 Kissed and sucked would it be by the thirst of the sun; vapour would it become, and height, and path of light, and light itself!
 
 Truly, like the sun do I love life, and all deep seas.
 
 And this means to me knowledge: all that is deep shall ascend - to my height! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (16) SCHOLARS WHEN I lay asleep, then did a sheep eat at the ivy-wreath on my head, - it ate, and said thereby: "Zarathustra is no longer a scholar." It said this, and went away clumsily and proudly. A child told it to me.
 
 I like to lie here where the children play, beside the ruined wall, among thistles and red poppies.
 
 A scholar am I still to the children, and also to the thistles and red poppies. Innocent are they, even in their wickedness.
 
 But to the sheep I am no longer a scholar: so wills my lot-blessings upon it!
 
 For this is the truth: I have departed from the house of the scholars, and the door have I also slammed behind me.
 
 Too long did my soul sit hungry at their table: not like them have I got the knack of investigating, as the knack of nut-cracking.
 
 Freedom do I love, and the air over fresh soil; rather would I sleep on ox-skins than on their honours and dignities.
 
 I am too hot and scorched with my own thought: often is it ready to take away my breath. Then have I to go into the open air, and away from all dusty rooms.
 
 But they sit cool in the cool shade: they want in everything to be merely spectators, and they avoid sitting where the sun burns on the steps.
 
 Like those who stand in the street and gape at the passers-by: thus do 101 they also wait, and gape at the thoughts which others have thought.
 
