The moral head dance can provide great low-level entertainment but it will forever miss the sparkling, crystalline, raw vitality of existence.
 
 Is Eternal Recurrence the "Greatest Weight"?
 
 It doesn't seem heavy to me.
 
 Section 341 of the Gay Science is called "The Greatest Weight" and it contains Nietzsche's best description of eternal recurrence. The first half of this section is above, at the beginning of this essay. The second half goes on as follows: "Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth, and curse the demon who so spoke? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment in which you would answer him: "You are a god, and never did I hear anything so divine." If that thought acquired power over you as you are, it would transform you, and perhaps crush you; the question with regard to each and every thing: "Do you want this once more, and also for innumerable times?" would lie as the greatest weight upon your actions. Or, how well disposed would you have to become to yourself and to life, so as to long for nothing more fervently than this ultimate eternal confirmation and seal?" This "greatest weight" that Nietzsche mentions as one possible reaction does not refer directly to eternal recurrence itself but to paralyzing "decisions". This is the weight of morality intruding itself again. Let's have, let's repeat the "good stuff", only joy or happiness or clever thoughts or "good works" rather than having, repeating fear or suffering or stupid thoughts or "evil" deeds. But making our life truly "better" (not just looking better) is eternally problematic and not so simple. The universe is playing a joke on us.
 
 Let's take joy as an example. True deep thunderous joy, not the posed joy seen on faces in advertising or "positive thinking", is always preceded by its yin-yang partner, by a period, long or short, of fear. The patient receiving a lab report ruling out cancer, the successful flight from a war zone, victory in battle, getting a good mark on a final exam in college, the landing of a good job … all these joys are preceded by fear of one sort or another - the more fear, the deeper the joy. Smaller joys are surrounded by smaller fears. So trying to fill your life with joy (and the other good things) is a stage for comedy. Life is both giving us it's greatest 279 imperatives (the essence of pain is to run away from it) and joking with us …
 
