And "he who cannot bless shall learn to curse!" - this clear teaching dropt to me from the clear heaven; this star stands in my heaven even in dark nights.
 
 I, however, am a blesser and a Yes-sayer, if you be but around me, you pure, you luminous heaven! you abyss of light! - into all abysses do I then carry my beneficent Yes-saying.
 
 A blesser have I become and a Yes-sayer: and therefore strove I long and was a striver, that I might one day get my hands free for blessing.
 
 This, however, is my blessing: to stand above everything as its own heaven, its round roof, its azure bell and eternal security: and blessed is he who thus bless!
 
 For all things are baptized at the font of eternity, and beyond good and evil; good and evil themselves, however, are but fugitive shadows and damp afflictions and passing clouds.
 
 Truly, it is a blessing and not a blasphemy when I teach that "above all things there stands the heaven of chance, the heaven of innocence, the heaven of hazard, the heaven of wantonness." "Of Hazard" - that is the oldest nobility in the world; that gave I back to all things; I emancipated them from bondage under purpose.
 
 This freedom and celestial serenity did I put like an azure bell above all things, when I taught that over them and through them, no "eternal Will" - wills.
 
 This wantonness and folly did I put in place of that Will, when I taught that "In everything there is one thing impossible - rationality!" A little reason, to be sure, a germ of wisdom scattered from star to star - this leaven is mixed in all things: for the sake of folly, wisdom is mixed in all things!
 
 A little wisdom is indeed possible; but this blessed security have I found in all things, that they prefer - to dance on the feet of chance.
 
 O heaven above me! you pure, you lofty heaven! This is now your purity to me, that there is no eternal reason-spider and reason-cobweb:-That you are to me a dancing-floor for divine chances, that you are to me a table of the Gods, for divine dice and dice-players!But you blush? Have I spoken unspeakable things? Have I abused, when I meant to bless you?
 
 Or is it the shame of being two of us that makes you blush! - Do you 132 bid me go and be silent, because now - day comes?
 
