But thus do I counsel you, my friends: distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful!
 
 They are people of bad race and lineage; out of their countenances peer the hangman and the sleuth-hound.
 
 Distrust all those who talk much of their justice! Truly, in their souls not only honey is lacking.
 
 And when they call themselves "the good and just," forget not, that for them to be Pharisees, nothing is lacking but - power!
 
 My friends, I will not be mixed up and confounded with others.
 
 There are those who preach my doctrine of life, and are at the same time preachers of equality, and tarantulas.
 
 That they speak in favour of life, though they sit in their den, these poison-spiders, and withdrawn from life - is because they would thereby do injury.
 
 To those would they thereby do injury who have power at present: for with those the preaching of death is still most at home.
 
 Were it otherwise, then would the tarantulas teach otherwise: and they themselves were formerly the best world-maligners and heretic-burners.
 
 With these preachers of equality will I not be mixed up and confounded. For thus speaks justice to me: "Men are not equal." And neither shall they become so! What would be my love to the overman, if I spoke otherwise?
 
 On a thousand bridges and piers shall they throng to the future, and always shall there be more war and inequality among them: thus does my great love make me speak!
 
 Inventors of figures and phantoms shall they be in their hostilities; and with those figures and phantoms shall they yet fight with each other the supreme fight!
 
 Good and evil, and rich and poor, and high and low, and all names of values: weapons shall they be, and sounding signs, that life must again and again surpass itself!
 
 Aloft will it build itself with columns and stairs - life itself into remote distances would it gaze, and out towards blissful beauties - therefore does it require elevation!
 
 And because it requires elevation, therefore does it require steps, and variance of steps and climbers! To rise strives life, and in rising to surpass itself.
 
 And just behold, my friends! Here where the tarantula's den is, rises 82 aloft an ancient temple's ruins - just behold it with enlightened eyes!
 
