Wanton avidity, bilious envy, careworn revenge, populace-pride: all these struck my eye. It is no longer true that the poor are blessed. The kingdom of heaven, however, is with the cows." "And why is it not with the rich?" asked Zarathustra temptingly, while he kept back the cows which sniffed familiarly at the peaceful one.
 
 "Why do you tempt me?" answered the other. "you know it yourself better even than I. What was it drove me to the poorest, O Zarathustra?
 
 Was it not my disgust at the richest?
 
 -At the culprits of riches, with cold eyes and rank thoughts, who pick up profit out of all kinds of rubbish - at this rabble that stinks to heaven, -At this gilded, falsified populace, whose fathers were pickpockets, or carrion-crows, or rag-pickers, with wives compliant, lewd and forgetful: - for they are all of them not far different from harlotsPopulace above, populace below! What are 'poor' and 'rich' at present!
 
 That distinction did I unlearn, - then did I flee away further and ever further, until I came to those cows." Thus spoke the peaceful one, and puffed himself and perspired with his words: so that the cows wondered anew. Zarathustra, however, kept looking into his face with a smile, all the time the man talked so severely - and shook silently his head.
 
 "you do violence to yourself, you Preacher-on-the-Mount, when you use such severe words. For such severity neither your mouth nor your eye have been given you.
 
 Nor, methinks, has your stomach either: to it all such rage and hatred and foaming-over is repugnant. your stomach wants softer things: you are not a butcher.
 
 Rather seem you to me a plant-eater and a root-man. Perhaps you grind corn. Certainly, however, you are averse to fleshly joys, and you love honey." "you have divined me well," answered the voluntary beggar, with lightened heart. "I love honey, I also grind corn; for I have sought out what tastes sweetly and makes pure breath: -Also what requires a long time, a day's-work and a mouth's-work for gentle idlers and sluggards.
 
 Furthest, to be sure, have those cows carried it: they have devised ruminating and lying in the sun. They also abstain from all heavy thoughts which inflate the heart." -"Well!" said Zarathustra, "you should also see my animals, my eagle 210 and my serpent, - their like do not at present exist on earth.
 
