And anew Zarathustra thought to himself: "Oh, how well do they now please me, these higher men!" - but he did not say it aloud, for he respected their happiness and their silence.Then, however, there happened that which in this astonishing long day was most astonishing: the ugliest man began once more and for the last time to gurgle and snort, and when he had at length found expression, Behold. there sprang a question plump and plain out of his mouth, a good, deep, clear question, which moved the hearts of all who listened to him.
 
 "My friends, all of you," said the ugliest man, "what think you? For the sake of this day - I am for the first time content to have lived my entire life.
 
 And that I testify so much is still not enough for me. It is worthwhile living on the earth: one day, one festival with Zarathustra, has taught me to love the earth.
 
 'Was that - life?' will I say to death. 'Well! Once more!' My friends, what think you? Will you not, like me, say to death: 'Was that - life? For the sake of Zarathustra, well! Once more!'" - Thus spoke the ugliest man; it was not, however, far from midnight.
 
 And what took place then, think you? As soon as the higher men heard his question, they became all at once conscious of their transformation and convalescence, and of him who was the cause thereof: then did they rush up to Zarathustra, thanking, honouring, caressing him, and kissing his hands, each in his own peculiar way; so that some laughed and some wept. The old soothsayer, however, danced with delight; and though he was then, as some narrators suppose, full of sweet wine, he was certainly still fuller of sweet life, and had renounced all weariness. There are even those who narrate that the ass then danced: for not in vain had the ugliest man previously given it wine to drink. That may be the case, or it may be otherwise; and if in truth the ass did not dance that evening, there nevertheless happened then greater and rarer wonders than the dancing of an ass would have been. In short, as the proverb of Zarathustra says: "What does it matter!" 2.
 
 When, however, this took place with the ugliest man, Zarathustra stood there like one drunken: his glance dulled, his tongue faltered and his feet staggered. And who could divine what thoughts then passed through Zarathustra's soul? Apparently, however, his spirit retreated and fled in advance and was in remote distances, and as it were 247 "wandering on high mountain-ridges," as it stands written, "between two seas, -Wandering between the past and the future as a heavy cloud.
 
