Good manners! Everything is false and foul with us. No one knows any longer how to reverence: it is that precisely that we run away from. They are fulsome obtrusive dogs; they gild palm-leaves.
 
 This loathing chokes me, that we kings ourselves have become false, draped and disguised with the old faded pomp of our ancestors, showpieces for the stupidest, the craftiest, and whosoever at present traffics for power.
 
 We are not the first men - and have nevertheless to stand for them: of this imposture have we at last become weary and disgusted.
 
 From the rabble have we gone out of the way, from all those bawlers and scribe-blowflies, from the trader-stench, the ambition-fidgeting, the bad breath-: fie, to live among the rabble; -Fie, to stand for the first men among the rabble! Ah, loathing! Loathing! Loathing! What does it now matter about us kings!""Your old sickness seizes you," said here the king on the left, "your loathing seizes you, my poor brother. you know, however, that someone hears us." Immediately thereupon, Zarathustra, who had opened ears and eyes to this talk, rose from his hiding-place, advanced towards the kings, and thus began: "He who hears to you, he who gladly hears to you, is called Zarathustra.
 
 I am Zarathustra who once said: 'What does it now matter about kings!' Forgive me; I rejoiced when you said to each other: 'What does it matter about us kings!' Here, however, is my domain and jurisdiction: what may you be seeking in my domain? Perhaps, however, you have found on your way what I seek: namely, the higher man." When the kings heard this, they beat upon their breasts and said with one voice: "We are recognised!
 
 With the sword of your utterance severest you the thickest darkness of our hearts. you have discovered our distress; for Behold. we are on our way to find the higher man-The man that is higher than we, although we are kings. To him do we convey this ass. For the highest man shall also be the highest lord on earth.
 
 There is no sorer misfortune in all human destiny, than when the mighty of the earth are not also the first men. Then everything becomes 190 false and distorted and monstrous.
 
