And though you be high and of a higher type, much in you is crooked and misshapen. There is no smith in the world that could hammer you right and straight for me.
 
 You are only bridges: may higher ones pass over upon you! you signify steps: so do not upbraid him who ascends beyond you into his height!
 
 Out of your seed there may one day arise for me a genuine son and perfect heir: but that time is distant. you yourselves are not those to whom my heritage and name belong.
 
 Not for you do I wait here in these mountains; not with you may I descend for the last time. you have come to me only as a presage that higher ones are on the way to me,-Not the men of great longing, of great loathing, of great satiety, and that which you call the remnant of God; -No! No! Three times No! For others do I wait here in these mountains, and will not lift my foot from thence without them; -For higher ones, stronger ones, triumphanter ones, merrier ones, for such as are built squarely in body and soul: laughing lions must come!
 
 O my guests, you strange ones - have you yet heard nothing of my children? And that they are on the way to me?
 
 Do speak to me of my gardens, of my Happy Isles, of my new beautiful race - why do you not speak to me thereof?
 
 This guests' - present do I solicit of your love, that you speak to me of my children. For them am I rich, for them I became poor: what have I not surrendered.
 
 What would I not surrender that I might have one thing: these children, this living plantation, these life-trees of my will and of my highest hope!" Thus spoke Zarathustra, and stopped suddenly in his discourse: for his longing came over him, and he closed his eyes and his mouth, because of the agitation of his heart. And all his guests also were silent, and stood still and confounded: except only that the old soothsayer made signs with his hands and his gestures.
 
 Part 4, (12) THE SUPPER FOR at this point the soothsayer interrupted the greeting of 220 Zarathustra and his guests: he pressed forward as one who had no time to lose, seized Zarathustra's hand and exclaimed: "But Zarathustra!
 
