Drunken joy and self-forgetting, did the world once seem to me.
 
 This world, eternally imperfect, image of an eternal contradiction and imperfect image - a drunken joy to its imperfect creator: thus did the world once seem to me.
 
 Thus did I also once cast my delusion beyond man, like all the believers in an afterworld. Beyond man, indeed?
 
 Ah, you brothers, that god whom I created was man-made and madness, like all gods!
 
 Human was he, and only a poor fragment of a human and ego. Out of my own ashes and glow it came to me, that phantom. And truly, it came not to me from the beyond!
 
 What happened, my brothers? I surpassed myself, the suffering one; I carried my own ashes to the mountain; a brighter flame I contrived for myself. And Behold, then the phantom withdrew from me!
 
 To me, the convalescent, it would now be suffering and torment to believe in such phantoms: suffering it would now be to me, and humiliation. Thus speak I to believers in an afterworld.
 
 Suffering it was, and impotence - that created all afterworlds; and the brief madness of bliss, which is experienced only by those who suffer most deeply.
 
 Weariness, which seeks to get to the ultimate with one leap, with a death-leap; a poor ignorant weariness, unwilling even to will any longer: that created all gods and afterworlds.
 
 Believe me, my brothers! It was the body which despaired of the body it groped with the fingers of the deluded spirit at the ultimate walls.
 
 Believe me, my brothers! It was the body which despaired of the earth it heard the belly of existence speaking to it.
 
 It sought to get through these ultimate walls with its head - and not only with its head - into "the other world." But that "other world" is well concealed from man, that dehumanized, inhuman world, which is a celestial nothingness; and the belly of existence does not speak to humans at all, except as a human.
 
 Truly, all being is difficult to demonstrate and prove, and hard to make it speak. Tell me, you brothers, is not the strangest of all things best demonstrated?
 
 Yes, this I, with its contradiction and confusion, speaks most honestly of its being - this creating, willing, valuing ego, which is the measure and value of things.
 
 And this most honest existence, the I - it speaks of the body, and still 29 wants the body, even when it poetizes and raves and flutters with broken wings.
 
