Other singers are there, to be sure, to whom only the full house makes the voice soft, the hand eloquent, the eye expressive, the heart wakeful: those do I not resemble. 2.
 
 He who one day teaches men to fly will have shifted all landmarks; to him will all landmarks themselves fly into the air; the earth will he christen anew - as "the light body." The ostrich runs faster than the fastest horse, but it also thrusts its head heavily into the heavy earth: thus is it with the man who cannot yet fly.
 
 Heavy to him are earth and life, and so wills the spirit of gravity! But he who would become light, and be a bird, must love himself: - thus do I teach.
 
 Not, to be sure, with the love of the side and infected, for with them stinks even self-love!
 
 One must learn to love oneself - thus do I teach - with a wholesome and healthy love: that one may endure to be with oneself, and not go roving about.
 
 Such roving about christens itself "brotherly love"; with these words has there thus far been the best lying and dissembling, and especially by those who have been burdensome to every one.
 
 And truly, it is no commandment for today and tomorrow to learn to love oneself. Rather is it of all arts the finest, subtlest, last and most patient.
 
 For to its possessor is all possession well concealed, and of all treasurepits one's own is last excavated - so causes the spirit of gravity.
 
 Almost in the cradle are we apportioned with heavy words and worths: "good" and "evil" - so calls itself this dowry. For the sake of it we are forgiven for living.
 
 And therefore suffers one little children to come to one, to forbid them betimes to love themselves - so causes the spirit of gravity.
 
 And we - we bear loyally what is apportioned to us, on hard shoulders, over rugged mountains! And when we sweat, then do people say to us: "Yes, life is hard to bear!" But man himself only is hard to bear! The reason thereof is that he carries too many extraneous things on his shoulders. Like the camel kneels he down, and lets himself be well laden.
 
 Especially the strong weight-bearing man in whom reverence resides.
 
 Too many extraneous heavy words and worths loads he upon himself 153 then seems life to him a desert!
 
