Alpa! cried I, who carries his ashes to the mountain? Alpa! Alpa! who carries his ashes to the mountain?
 
 And I pressed the key, and pulled at the gate, and exerted myself. But not a finger's-breadth was it yet open: Then did a roaring wind tear the folds apart: whistling, whizzing, and piercing, it threw to me a black coffin.
 
 And in the roaring and whistling and whizzing, the coffin burst open, and spouted out a thousand peals of laughter.
 
 And a thousand caricatures of children, angels, owls, fools, and childsized butterflies laughed and mocked, and roared at me.
 
 Fearfully was I terrified thereby: it prostrated me. And I cried with horror as I ne'er cried before.
 
 But my own crying awoke me: - and I came to myself.Thus did Zarathustra relate his dream, and then was silent: for as yet he knew not the interpretation thereof. But the disciple whom he loved most arose quickly, seized Zarathustra's hand, and said: "your life itself interprets to us this dream, O Zarathustra!
 
 Are you not yourself the wind with shrill whistling, which bursts open the gates of the fortress of Death?
 
 Are you not yourself the coffin full of many-hued malices and angelcaricatures of life?
 
 Truly, like a thousand peals of children's laughter comes Zarathustra into all sepulchres, laughing at those night-watchmen and grave-guardians, and whoever else rattles with sinister keys.
 
 With your laughter will you frighten and prostrate them: fainting and recovering will you demonstrate your power over them.
 
 And when the long twilight comes and the mortal weariness, even then will you not disappear from our firmament, you advocate of life!
 
 New stars have you made us see, and new nocturnal glories: truly, laughter itself have you spread out over us like a many-hued canopy.
 
 Now will children's laughter ever from coffins flow; now will a strong wind ever come victoriously to all mortal weariness: of this you are yourself the pledge and the prophet!
 
 Truly, they themselves didst you dream, your enemies: that was your sorest dream.
 
 But as you awoke from them and came to yourself, so shall they awaken from themselves - and come to you!
 
 Thus spoke the disciple; and all the others then thronged around Zarathustra, grasped him by the hands, and tried to persuade him to 110 leave his bed and his sadness, and return to them.
 
