Everything we are aware of, every wandering moment of awareness is not fleeting but eternal, repeating itself eternally and us with it. The world loves you so much it repeats you forever.
 
 In the end a rock solid proof of eternal recurrence is elusive, but this is the case for all "knowledge", theories and philosophies. The only solid rock certainty, put forward by Descartes, "I think, therefore I am" is almost true but not quite. Thinking is the most ghostly of activities and is always neurotically trying to make itself fixed and lasting, always chasing the belief, "this thought will survive my death". Despite its wandering nature, awareness is the most solid of rocks. "I am aware of the sky, I am aware of that tree, I am aware of thinking, therefore I exist." You may be wrong about the words sky, tree or thinking but you are sure about being aware of something, about being aware. "I am aware, therefore I exist". Awareness and existence are the same.
 
 What might be more important to ask than a "proof" of the theory of eternal recurrence is … what is the value of this theory? Is it a gateway to a "new health"? … . . My answer: It's the only "projection-mind-game" with the possibility of waking up, of happily and playfully dissolving itself to allow the possibility of localizing yourself in your immediate world, to allow what Fritz Perls so elegantly expressed as "losing your mind, and coming to your senses".
 
 Does Eternal Recurrence Imply a New Morality?
 
 Not as I see it.
 
 You could say eternal recurrence implies a new "natural morality" which is close to "animal morality". "Animal morality" ?! The incongruity of "animal" and "morality" seen together reveals the scam. The incongruity says, "animals die but we don't". It's better to just dump the word.
 
 Without morality, are we free to do anything we want ? No, there are always consequences. You can't walk through walls. You can't step on toes of others without them getting mad. You can't threaten someone without him defending himself in one way or another. But this isn't morality, it's intelligence.
 
 What eternal recurrence does imply is a new "health", which follows from an awakening from the social dream to the world around us. This world around us of course includes our body, which contains all the "dos and don'ts" that animals have, a passion to defend itself and its family, a great wisdom and intelligence, a "will to power" and a "will to laughter".
 
 278 At its center, morality implies cheating life of its death.
 
