How have I freed myself from loathing?
 
 Who has rejuvenated my eye? How have I flown to the height where no rabble any longer sit at the wells?
 
 Did my loathing itself create for me wings and fountain-divining powers? Truly, to the loftiest height had I to fly, to find again the well of delight!
 
 Oh, I have found it, my brothers! Here on the loftiest height bubbles up for me the well of delight! And there is a life at whose waters none of the rabble drink with me!
 
 Almost too violently do you flow for me, you fountain of delight! And often emptiest you the goblet again, in wanting to fill it!
 
 And yet must I learn to approach you more modestly: far too violently does my heart still flow towards you:My heart on which my summer burns, my short, hot, melancholy, over-happy summer: how my summer heart longs for your coolness!
 
 Past, the lingering distress of my spring! Past, the wickedness of my snowflakes in June! Summer have I become entirely, and summer-noontide!
 
 A summer on the loftiest height, with cold fountains and blissful stillness: oh, come, my friends, that the stillness may become more blissful!
 
 For this is our height and our home: too high and steep do we here dwell for all uncleanly ones and their thirst.
 
 Cast but your pure eyes into the well of my delight, my friends! How could it become turbid thereby! It shall laugh back to you with its purity.
 
 On the tree of the future build we our nest; eagles shall bring us lone ones food in their beaks!
 
 Truly, no food of which the impure could be fellow-partakers! Fire, would they think they devoured, and burn their mouths!
 
 Truly, no abodes do we here keep ready for the impure! An ice-cave to their bodies would our happiness be, and to their spirits!
 
 And as strong winds will we live above them, neighbor to the eagles, neighbor to the snow, neighbor to the sun: thus live the strong winds.
 
 And like a wind will I one day blow among them, and with my spirit, take the breath from their spirit: thus wills my future.
 
 Truly, a strong wind is Zarathustra to all low places; and this counsel counsels he to his enemies, and to whatever spits and spews: "Take care not to spit against the wind!" Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 80 Part 2, (7) THE TARANTULAS BEHOLD, THIS is the tarantula's den!
 
