I don't strain to put him into simpler, more logical, more everyday ideas. I don't relate him to more "understandable" philosophies. If a sentence or aphorism doesn't make "sense" to me, I just let it pass by, hoping without high expectations that my subconscious with sort it out. But, except for parts of Zarathustra, Nietzsche almost always writes very clearly, using simple words. Nietzsche created something basically new, not just "new ideas", but a new way of "dancing" in life. He was what I would call a "life experimenter".
 
 I hardly ever read books about Nietzsche's philosophy. Not only are they usually boring, but you learn about the authors of those books, not Nietzsche.
 
 Part of Nietzsche's genius was a very simple method: He took the most widely believed, most important "truths" of his day, turned them upsidedown, shook them a little, and watched with delight all the fascinating insights that flowed out.
 
 His Best 8 Books 1. I consider Nietzsche's best book to be The Gay Science (1881). At the time of writing it, he was finally free of university culture and his spirits were high. Besides being enjoyable, reading this book is a type of "spiritual dance training".
 
 2. His autobiography, Ecce Homo (1888), is next. We find out here what a "lazy" overman-type he was: "I am the opposite of a heroic nature. To 'will' something, to 'strive' after something, to have an 'aim' or a 'desire' in my mind - I know none of these things from experience." At the height of his maturity, the book is full of wit, brilliant insight and practical wisdom. Walter Kaufmann wrote in the introduction to the book, "Who would not rather have Shakespeare on Shakespeare, including the poet's own reflections on his plays and poems, than the exegeses and conjectures of thousands of critics and professors?" 3. Zarathustra (1882-85) completes what I consider Nietzsche's best three books by far. Nietzsche thought this book stood high above all his others. Of its 4 parts the first 2 parts are the most readable and best. Part 3 starts to fly a little too high for me and in the symbolism of Part 4 I get 9 lost and even bored.
 
