To those do I say it to the face, although it sound unpleasantly: the world resembles man, in that it has a backside, - so much is true!
 
 There is in the world much filth: so much is true! But the world itself is not therefore a filthy monster!
 
 There is wisdom in the fact that much in the world smells badly: loathing itself creates wings, and fountain-divining powers!
 
 In the best there is still something to loathe; and the best is still something that must be surpassed!O my brothers, there is much wisdom in the fact that much filth is in the world! 15.
 
 Such sayings did I hear pious the believers in an afterworld speak to their consciences, and truly without wickedness or guile, - although there is nothing more guileful in the world, or more wicked.
 
 "Let the world be as it is! Raise not a finger against it!" "Let whoever will choke and stab and skin and scrape the people: raise not a finger against it! Thereby will they learn to renounce the world." "And your own reason - this shall you yourself stifle and choke; for it is a reason of this world, - thereby will you learn yourself to renounce the world."-Shatter, shatter, O my brothers, those old tables of the pious! Tatter the maxims of the world-maligners! 16.
 
 "He who learns much unlearns all violent cravings" - that do people now whisper to one another in all the dark lanes.
 
 "Wisdom wearies, nothing is worthwhile; you shall not crave!" - this new table found I hanging even in the public markets.
 
 Break up for me, O my brothers, break up also that new table! The weary-o'-the-world put it up, and the preachers of death and the jailer: for behold, it is also a sermon for slavery:Because they learned badly and not the best, and everything too early and everything too fast; because they ate badly: from thence has resulted their ruined stomach;-For a ruined stomach, is their spirit: it persuades to death! For truly, my brothers, the spirit is a stomach!
 
 Life is a well of delight, but to him in whom the ruined stomach speaks, the father of affliction, all fountains are poisoned.
 
 To discern: that is delight to the lion-willed! But he who has become weary, is himself merely "willed"; with him play all the waves.
 
 162 And such is always the nature of weak men: they lose themselves on their way.
 
