[4](p.195) August: He is attracted to but resists a love affair with a married woman from Paris, Louise Ott. [4] (p.189) 32 - October: He leaves with his new Jewish friend and scholar, Paul Ree to join Albert Brenner and Malwida von Meysenbug as a community of "free spirits" living in a villa in Sorrento, Italy. On the way he makes a detour to visit Pisa with Isabella von Pahlen, a girl he had met on the train. [4] (p.191) November: Nietzsche's final meeting with Wagner in Sorrento.
 
 January: The Sorrento community spends their days together, taking walks, reading and working on their own projects. There is much discussion about Nietzsche and whom he should marry. They see marriage as helping to relieve his illness.
 
 Early October: To help his eye condition doctors recommend "absolute avoidance of reading and writing for many years." [4] 33 - March: He is relieved of his high school teaching responsibilities.
 
 May: Human, All Too Human is published. Wagner attacks the book saying it is influenced by Jewish thought. To Ree Nietzsche says, "All my friends are now in agreement that my book was written by you: for which I congratulate you on its authorship … Long live Reealism and my good friend!" 34 - Autumn: Nietzsche's illness continues to plague him. His teaching exhausts him.
 
 March: Publication of Mixed Opinions and Maxims. As usual the sales of the book are poor.
 
 May: Submits resignation to the university on grounds of ill health. In June the university expresses regret and thanks and he is awarded a pension of 2/3 his regular salary. His friends discuss how he might get extra financial support. He sells his furniture and his books are stored in Zurich.
 
 August-September: Despite his illness he keeps writing aphorisms for his next book. He is helped by his new friend, Peter Gast.
 
 About being a prestigious professor at the University of Basel he says, "Ten years were behind me, during which, to tell the truth, the nourishment of my spirit had been at a standstill, during which I had added not a single useful fragment to my knowledge, in which I had forgotten countless things in the pursuit of dusty scholarly odds and ends." ([3] p6 s3) Years of Wandering (1880-1889) Age 259 35 - December: The Wanderer and His Shadow is published.
 
