Truly, to such a spirit it is a theft, and the work of a beast of prey.
 
 It once loved "You Shall" as its most sacred: now is it forced to find illusion and arbitrariness even in the holiest things, that it may capture freedom from its love: the lion is needed for this capture.
 
 But tell me, my brothers, what the child can do, which even the lion could not do? Why must the predatory lion still become a child?
 
 Innocence is the child, and forgeting, a new beginning, a game, a selfpropelling wheel, a first movement, a sacred Yes.
 
 For the game of creating, my brothers, a sacred "yes" to life is needed: the spirit now wills its own will; the one who had lost the world now attains its own world.
 
 Three metamorphoses of the spirit have I told you: how the spirit became a camel, the camel a lion, and the lion at last a child. Thus spoke Zarathustra. And at that time he staying in the town which is called The Motley Cow.
 
 Part 1, (2) THE ACADEMIC CHAIRS OF VIRTUE People recommended to Zarathustra a wise man, as one who could discourse well about sleep and virtue: greatly was he honoured and rewarded for it, and all the youths sat before his chair. To him went Zarathustra, and sat among the youths before his chair. And thus spoke the wise man: Be respectful and bashful in presence of sleep! That is the first thing!
 
 And avoid all who sleep badly and stay awake at night!
 
 Even the thief is bashful in presence of sleep: he always steals softly through the night. Shameless, however, is the night-watchman; shamelessly he carries his horn.
 
 No small art is it to sleep: it is necessary for that purpose to keep awake all day.
 
 Ten times a day must you overcome yourself: that causes wholesome weariness, and is opium for the soul.
 
 Ten times must you reconcile again with yourself; for overcoming is bitterness, and the unreconciled ones sleep badly.
 
 26 Ten truths must you find during the day; otherwise you will seek truth during the night, and your soul will stay hungry.
 
