February: Not even finished with his doctorate, Nietzsche is amazed to be appointed as Professor in Philology at Basel University through the intervention of Ritschl. The pay is excellent but he soon laments, "What does this wonderful luck … consist of? Sweat and effort … the stale milk of the job's daily monotony."[4] (p.102) April: Nietzsche renounces his German citizenship to become Swiss.
 
 But because of a residency technicality he never becomes a Swiss citizen and so remains officially stateless for the rest of his life.[5](1869) In his inaugural university lecture Nietzsche reveals his radical view that philology should be subservient to philosophy.
 
 April to July: Nietzsche makes frequent visits to Wagner's home, becoming almost 'one of the family'.
 
 He has a heavy schedule teaching at the university and an associated preparatory high school. He mostly teaches Greek and Roman classics.
 
 September: Nietzsche becomes a vegetarian but he gives it up shortly after an argument with Wagner about it.
 
 25 - December: He plays "Santa Claus" for Wagner's [future] wife Cosima, making numerous purchases in Basel.
 
 January, February: He considers getting a dog as a pet but never does.
 
 Wagner writes to his new friend, "I have at present nobody with whom I can be as serious as with you—apart from [my wife]" June: Franz Overbeck, a professor of Theology at Basel, moves into the same house as Nietzsche. Their close friendship lasts all of Nietzsche's life.
 
 August: He volunteers for the German side in the Franco-Prussian war.
 
 The university gives him a leave of absence but because of Swiss neutrality he can only be a medic. He becomes sick while tending to severely wounded soldiers at the front and spends a month recovering at home.
 
 26 - January: Nietzsche applies for a position as philosophy professor but is unsuccessful.
 
 April: His first book, The Birth of Tragedy, is ready for submission. The book breaks from scholarly tradition by its exuberant style and by having no footnotes referring to other sources.
 
 27 - January: The Birth of Tragedy is published. The Wagners are very enthusiastic about it but Ritschl calls it, "clever drunkenness".
 
 March: Nietzsche's aspirations as a musical composer is set back by 257 criticism of his music by the conductor Hans Von Bulow.
 
