but we don't get the joke.
 
 No, the paralyzing weight of decision is the moral game revisited: "will this save me from death?". Forget it. Ride your spirit instead.
 
 The Iron Law of Yin-Yang There is no isolated happiness or suffering, only a happiness-suffering flow back and forth. Happiness is the release from suffering. Suffering is the loss of happiness. There would be no happiness without suffering.
 
 There would be no suffering without happiness. The flow is uncontrollable and uncanny. This same yin-yang applies to every human and nonhuman aspect of the universe: good-evil, joy-fear, peace-struggle, knowledge-ignorance, wave-particle, subject-object, energy-matter, power-laughter, light-darkness, ad infinitum. Yin-yang makes the world dance.
 
 Human progress has been and will always be … perfectly zero. The more knowledge universities accumulate, the more possibilities there are for ignorance, for being mesmerised by their structured categories, ideas and theories instead of looking at a situation as an intelligent organism.
 
 The more comfort and security is made by a generation with memories of hard or dangerous times, the more their children will be rebellious and look for thrills. The more toys technology spits out the more nervous boredom we have. The more entertaining our living in videoland is, the more our bodies know it's flat, lifeless and unreal. America's historical mission is to prove that you can't make the world better.
 
 We need not pity or envy any being in the universe, past or future. The newly hatched turtle with the strength of his body and instincts racing happily across the sand towards the sea only to be killed and eaten by a seagull is no less fortunate than the life of a Nobel prize winner whose hard work to get it drove his wife crazy and made her divorce him. Both lives have their share of happiness and suffering and repeat themselves continuously for eternity. I'm not sure which life is more boring.
 
 "No progress? Effort will not make the world better or happier or more just? We might as well do nothing." Go ahead, do nothing … … until you get bored and your body tells you to do something exciting and forget about the idea of yin-yang. Doing only nothing is just another impossible attempt to get out of the flow of yin-yang. The universe is laughing.
 
 280 Will the Thought of Eternal Recurrence Bring You or Humanity to a Higher Level?
 
