19.
 
 Lift up your hearts, my brothers, high, higher! And do not forget your legs! Lift up also your legs, you good dancers, and better still if you stand upon your heads!
 
 There are also heavy animals in a state of happiness, there are clubfooted ones from the beginning. Curiously do they exert themselves, like an elephant which endeavours to stand upon its head.
 
 Better, however, to be foolish with happiness than foolish with misfortune, better to dance awkwardly than walk lamely. So learn, I pray you, my wisdom, you higher men: even the worst thing has two good reverse sides,-Even the worst thing has good dancing-legs: so learn, I pray you, you higher men, to put yourselves on your proper legs!
 
 So unlearn, I pray you, the sorrow-sighing, and all the populace-sadness! Oh, how sad the buffoons of the populace seem to me today! This today, however, is that of the populace.
 
 20.
 
 Do like to the wind when it rushes forth from its mountain-caves: to its own piping will it dance; the seas tremble and leap under its footsteps.
 
 That which gives wings to asses, that which milks the lionesses: praised be that good, unruly spirit, which comes like a hurricane to all the present and to all the populace,-Which is hostile to thistle-heads and puzzle-heads, and to all withered leaves and weeds: - praised be this wild, good, free spirit of the storm, which dances upon fens and afflictions, as upon meadows!
 
 Which hats the consumptive populace-dogs, and all the ill-constituted, sullen brood: - praised be this spirit of all free spirits, the laughing storm, which blows dust into the eyes of all the melanopic and melancholic!
 
 You higher men, the worst thing in you is that you have none of you learned to dance as you ought to dance - to dance beyond yourselves!
 
 What does it matter that you have failed!
 
 How many things are still possible! So learn to laugh beyond yourselves! Lift up your hearts, you good dancers, high! higher! And do not forget the good laughter!
 
 This crown of the laughter, this rose-garland crown: to you, my brothers, do I cast this crown! Laughing have I consecrated; you higher men, learn, I pray you - to laugh!
 
 229 Part 4, (14) THE SONG OF MELANCHOLY 1.
 
