Rather would I succumb than disown this one thing; and truly, where there is succumbing and leaf-falling, behold, there does Life sacrifice itself - for power!
 
 That I have to be struggle, and becoming, and purpose, and cross-purpose - ah, he who divines my will, divines well also on what crooked paths it has to tread!
 
 Whatever I create, and however much I love it, - soon must I be adverse to it, and to my love: so wills my will.
 
 And even you, discerning one, are only a path and footstep of my will: truly, my Will to Power walks even on the feet of your Will to Truth!
 
 He certainly did not hit the truth who shot at it the formula: "Will to existence": that will - does not exist!
 
 For what is not, cannot will; that, however, which is in existence - how could it still strive for existence!
 
 Only where there is life, is there also will: not, however, Will to Life, but - so I teach you - Will to Power!
 
 Much is reckoned higher than life itself by the living one; but out of the very reckoning speaks - the Will to Power!"Thus did Life once teach me: and thereby, you wisest ones, do I solve you the riddle of your hearts.
 
 Truly, I say to you: good and evil which would be everlasting - it does not exist! Of its own accord must it ever surpass itself anew.
 
 With your values and formulae of good and evil, you exercise power, you valuing ones: and that is your secret love, and the sparkling, trembling, and overflowing of your souls.
 
 But a stronger power grows out of your values, and a new surpassing: by it breaks egg and egg-shell.
 
 And he who has to be a creator in good and evil - truly, he has first to be a destroyer, and break values in pieces.
 
 Thus does the greatest evil pertain to the greatest good: that, however, is the creating good.Let us speak thereof, you wisest ones, even though it be bad. To be silent is worse; all suppressed truths become poisonous.
 
 And let everything break up which - can break up by our truths! Many a house is still to be built! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 94 Part 2, (13) THE SUBLIME ONES CALM is the bottom of my sea: who would guess that it hides droll monsters!
 
