He hated the drudgery of teaching and scholarship and his spirit led him to write books that were almost universally unpopular among his peers. At first they viciously criticized his ideas and style and then completely ignored him. He nevertheless maintained good relations with his university employers and after ten years was released from work for reasons of health with a pension of 2/3 his salary. He wandered and wrote for the rest of his lucid life. His friendship with Wagner soured for various reasons. He loved a fascinating girl, Lou Salome, who was younger than him and wanted to remain free. He was close to his sister until she poisoned his friendship with Lou and later married an anti-Semite rabble-rouser. His loyal helper Peter Gast during these years unfortunately was not the missing friend he needed to stimulate his thought and spirit. In his last lucid year, he finally sensed fame approaching through the enthusiastic recognition and praise of the influential Danish writer Georg Brandes. Nietzsche wrote an autobiography in anticipation and while finishing it he went insane for reasons that are not clear.
 
 For more details of his life go to: Appendix A: Timeline Biography Nietzsche's Writings Aphoristic Writing Most of Nietzsche's books after 1876 contain only aphorisms, varying in length from one short sentence to several paragraphs, each dealing with one subject, idea or observation. Aphorisms following each other are sometimes related, sometimes not. Each aphorism can stand by itself.
 
 This is especially true of Human All Too Human, The Dawn, The Gay Science and Zarathustra but even Beyond Good and Evil, Twilight of the Idols and The Antichrist follow this form to a great extent. These aphorisms return unsystematically to the many subjects and themes seen throughout his books. Each book does not have a single theme and you could see them all as one big bag of uncategorized aphorisms. Even the two later books that concentrate on a single theme, the Genealogy of Morals and Ecce Homo are punctuated throughout with striking aphorisms. The preSocratic philosophers also used disjointed aphorisms to describe the universe. Aristotle was the first to describe the world in a systematic way and this became the norm for philosophers ever since. It is Nietzsche's return to the uncategorized aphorism that is so unique, disturbing and powerful.
 
 8 Thoughts about "Understanding" Nietzsche If "understanding" is used in its popular sense then I don't "understand" Nietzsche.
 
