See this languishing one! Only a span-breadth is he from his goal; but from weariness has he lain down obstinately in the dust, this brave one!
 
 From weariness yawns he at the path, at the earth, at the goal, and at himself: not a step further will he go, - this brave one!
 
 Now glows the sun upon him, and the dogs lick at his sweat: but he lies there in his obstinacy and prefers to languish:-A span-breadth from his goal, to languish! Truly, you will have to drag him into his heaven by the hair of his head - this hero!
 
 Better still that you let him lie where he has lain down, that sleep may come to him, the comforter, with cooling patter-rain.
 
 Let him lie, until of his own accord he awakens, - until of his own accord he repudiates all weariness, and what weariness has taught through him!
 
 Only, my brothers, see that you scare the dogs away from him, the idle skulkers, and all the swarming vermin:-All the swarming vermin of the "cultured," that - feast on the sweat of every hero! 19.
 
 I form circles around me and holy boundaries; ever fewer ascend with me ever higher mountains: I build a mountain-range out of ever holier mountains.But wherever you would ascend with me, O my brothers, take care lest a parasite ascend with you!
 
 A parasite: that is a reptile, a creeping, cringing reptile, that tries to fatten on your infirm and sore places.
 
 And this is its art: it divines where ascending souls are weary, in your trouble and dejection, in your sensitive modesty, does it build its loathsome nest.
 
 Where the strong are weak, where the noble are all-too-gentle - there builds it its loathsome nest; the parasite lives where the great have small sore-places.
 
 What is the highest of all species of being, and what is the lowest? The parasite is the lowest species; he, however, who is of the highest species feeds most parasites.
 
 For the soul which has the longest ladder, and can go deepest down: how could there fail to be most parasites upon it?-The most comprehensive soul, which can run and stray and rove furthest in itself; the most necessary soul, which out of joy flings itself into chance:164 -The soul in Being, which plunges into Becoming; the possessing soul, which seeks to attain desire and longing:-The soul fleeing from itself, which overtakes itself in the widest circuit; the wisest soul, to which folly speaks most sweetly:-The soul most self-loving, in which all things have their current and counter-current, their ebb and their flow: - oh, how could the loftiest soul fail to have the worst parasites?
 
