Yet strange sounds the precept: "Die at the right time!
 
 Die at the right time: so teaches Zarathustra.
 
 To be sure, he who never lives at the right time, how could he ever die at the right time? Would that he might never be born! - Thus do I advise the superfluous ones.
 
 But even the superfluous ones make much ado about their death, and even the hollowest nut wants to be cracked.
 
 Every one regards dying as a great matter: but as yet death is not a festival. Not yet have people learned to inaugurate the finest festivals.
 
 The consummating death I show to you, which becomes a stimulus and promise to the living.
 
 His death, dies the consummating one triumphantly, surrounded by hoping and promising ones.
 
 Thus should one learn to die; and there should be no festival at which such a dying one does not consecrate the oaths of the living!
 
 Thus to die is best; the next best, however, is to die in battle, and sacrifice a great soul.
 
 But to the fighter equally hateful as to the victor, is your grinning death which steals nigh like a thief, - and yet comes as master.
 
 My death, praise I to you, the voluntary death, which comes to me because I want it.
 
 And when shall I want it? - He that has a goal and an heir, wants death at the right time for the goal and the heir.
 
 And out of reverence for the goal and the heir, he will hang up no more withered wreaths in the sanctuary of life.
 
 Truly, not the rope-makers will I resemble: they lengthen out their cord, and thereby go ever backward.
 
 Many a one, also, waxes too old for his truths and triumphs; a toothless mouth has no longer the right to every truth.
 
 And whoever wants to have fame, must take leave of honor betimes, and practise the difficult art of - going at the right time.
 
 One must discontinue being feasted upon when one tastes best: that is known by those who want to be long loved.
 
 Sour apples are there, no doubt, whose lot is to wait until the last day of autumn: and at the same time they become ripe, yellow, and 61 shrivelled.
 
