To be sure, you would call it by name and caress it; you would pull its ears and amuse yourself with it.
 
 And behold, you have its name in common with the people, and have become one of the people and the herd with your virtue!
 
 It is better for you to say: "Inexpressible is it, and nameless, that which is agony and sweetness to my soul, and also the hunger of my belly." Let your virtue be too high for the familiarity of names, and if you must speak of it, be not ashamed to stammer about it.
 
 Then speak and stammer: "This is my good, this do I love, it pleases me entirely, only this way do I want the good.
 
 Not as the law of a God do I desire it, not as a human law or a human need do I want it; it shall not be a signpost for me to over-earths and paradises.
 
 An earthly virtue is what I love: it has little prudence, and least of all the reason and wisdom of everyone.
 
 But that bird built its nest beside me: therefore, I love and cherish it now it sits beside me on its golden eggs." Thus should you stammer, and praise your virtue.
 
 Once you had passions and called them evil. But now you have only your virtues: they grew out of your passions.
 
 You set your highest goal in the heart of those passions: then they became your virtues and joys.
 
 And though you were of the race of the hot-tempered, or of the lustful, or of the fanatical, or the vengeful; in the end, all your passions became virtues, and all your devils, angels.
 
 Once you had wild dogs in your cellar: but they changed at last into birds and charming singers.
 
 Out of your poisons you brewed soothing ointments for yourself; you milked your cow of sorrow - now you drink the sweet milk of her udder.
 
 And nothing evil grows out of you any longer, unless it be the evil that grows out of the conflict of your virtues.
 
 My brother, if you are fortunate, then you will have one virtue and no more: thus you go more easily over the bridge.
 
 To have many virtues is a distinction, but it is a hard fate; and many a one has gone into the desert and killed himself, because he was weary of 33 being the battle and battlefield of virtues.
 
