But the devil is never at the place which would be his right place: he always comes too late, that cursed dwarf and club-foot!"Thus cursed Zarathustra impatiently in his heart, and considered how with averted look he might slip past the black man. But behold, it came about otherwise. For at the same moment had the sitting one already perceived him; and not unlike one whom an unexpected happiness overtakes, he sprang to his feet, and went straight towards Zarathustra.
 
 "Whoever you art, you traveller," said he, "help a strayed one, a seeker, an old man, who may here easily come to grief!
 
 The world here is strange to me, and remote; wild beasts also did I hear howling; and he who could have given me protection - he is himself no more.
 
 I was seeking the pious man, a saint and an anchorite, who, alone in his forest, had not yet heard of what all the world knows at present." "What does all the world know at present?" asked Zarathustra.
 
 "Perhaps that the old God no longer lives, in whom all the world once believed?" "you say it," answered the old man sorrowfully. "And I served that old God until his last hour.
 
 Now, however, am I out of service, without master, and yet not free; likewise am I no longer merry even for an hour, except it be in recollections.
 
 Therefore did I ascend into these mountains, that I might finally have a festival for myself once more, as becomes an old pope and church-father: for know it, that I am the last pope! - a festival of pious recollections and divine services.
 
 Now, however, is he himself dead, the most pious of men, the saint in the forest, who praised his God constantly with singing and mumbling.
 
 He himself found I no longer when I found his cot - but two wolves found I therein, which howled on account of his death, - for all animals loved him. Then did I haste away.
 
 Had I thus come in vain into these forests and mountains? Then did my heart determine that I should seek another, the most pious of all those who believe not in God-, my heart determined that I should seek Zarathustra!" Thus spoke the hoary man, and gazed with keen eyes at him who stood before him. Zarathustra however seized the hand of the old pope 201 and regarded it a long while with admiration.
 
