You yourself, however, - warn yourself also against your pity! For many are on their way to you, many suffering, doubting, despairing, drowning, freezing onesI warn you also against myself. you have read my best, my worst riddle, myself, and what I have done. I know the axe that fells you.
 
 But he - had to die: he looked with eyes which beheld everything, - he beheld men's depths and dregs, all his hidden ignominy and ugliness.
 
 His pity knew no modesty: he crept into my dirtiest corners. This most prying, over-intrusive, over-pitiful one had to die.
 
 He ever beheld me: on such a witness I would have revenge - or not live myself.
 
 The God who beheld everything, and also man: that God had to die!
 
 Man cannot endure it that such a witness should live." Thus spoke the ugliest man. Zarathustra however got up, and prepared to go on: for he felt frozen to the very bowels.
 
 "you nondescript," said he, "you warned me against your path. As thanks for it I praise my to you. Behold, up there is the cave of Zarathustra.
 
 My cave is large and deep and has many corners; there finds he that is most hidden his hiding-place. And close beside it, there are a hundred lurking-places and by-places for creeping, fluttering, and hopping creatures.
 
 You outcast, who have cast yourself out, you will not live among men and men's pity? Well then, do like me! Thus will you learn also from me; only the doer learns.
 
 And talk first and foremost to my animals! The proudest animal and the wisest animal - they might well be the right counsellors for us both!" - Thus spoke Zarathustra and went his way, more thoughtfully and slowly even than before: for he asked himself many things, and hardly knew what to answer.
 
 "How poor indeed is man," thought he in his heart, "how ugly, how wheezy, how full of hidden shame!
 
 They tell me that man loves himself. Ah, how great must that self-love be! How much contempt is opposed to it!
 
 Even this man has loved himself, as he has despised himself, - a great lover methinks he is, and a great despiser.
 
 207 No one have I yet found who more thoroughly despised himself: even that is elevation.
 
