you have humbled yourself before us; almost have you hurt our reverence-: -Who however could have humbled himself as you have done, with such pride? That uplifts us ourselves; a refreshment is it, to our eyes and hearts.
 
 To behold this, merely, gladly would we ascend higher mountains than this. For as eager beholders have we come; we wanted to see what brightens dim eyes.
 
 And Behold. now is it all over with our cries of distress. Now are our minds and hearts open and enraptured. Little is lacking for our spirits to become wanton.
 
 There is nothing, O Zarathustra, that grows more pleasingly on earth than a lofty, strong will: it is the finest growth. An entire landscape refreshes itself at one such tree.
 
 To the pine do I compare him, O Zarathustra, which grows up like you - tall, silent, hardy, solitary, of the best, supplest wood, stately,-In the end, however, grasping out for its dominion with strong, green branches, asking weighty questions of the wind, the storm, and whatever is at home on high places; -Answering more weightily, a commander, a victor! Oh! who should not ascend high mountains to behold such growths?
 
 At your tree, O Zarathustra, the gloomy and ill-constituted also refresh themselves; at your look even the wavering become steady and heal their hearts.
 
 And truly, towards your mountain and your tree do many eyes turn today; a great longing has arisen, and many have learned to ask: 'Who is Zarathustra?' And those into whose ears you have at any time dripped your song and your honey: all the hidden ones, the lonesome and the twosome, have simultaneously said to their hearts: 'does Zarathustra still live? It is no longer worthwhile to live, everything is indifferent, everything is useless: or else - we must live with Zarathustra!' 'Why does he not come who has so long announced himself?' thus do many people ask; 'has solitude swallowed him up? Or should we perhaps go to him?' Now does it come to pass that solitude itself becomes fragile and breaks open, like a grave that breaks open and can no longer hold its dead. Everywhere one sees resurrected ones.
 
 218 Now do the waves rise and rise around your mountain, O Zarathustra.
 
