It is your dearest Self, your virtue. The ring's thirst is in you: to reach itself again struggles every ring, and turns itself.
 
 And like the star that goes out, so is every work of your virtue: ever is its light on its way and travelling - and when will it cease to be on its way?
 
 Thus is the light of your virtue still on its way, even when its work is done. Be it forgotten and dead, still its ray of light lives and travels.
 
 That your virtue is your Self, and not an outward thing, a skin, or a cloak: that is the truth from the basis of your souls, you virtuous ones!But sure enough there are those to whom virtue means writhing under the lash: and you have listened too much to their crying!
 
 And others are there who call virtue the slothfulness of their vices; and when once their hatred and jealousy relax the limbs, their "justice" becomes lively and rubs its sleepy eyes.
 
 And others are there who are drawn downwards: their devils draw them. But the more they sink, the more ardently glows their eye, and the longing for their God.
 
 Ah! their crying also has reached your ears, you virtuous ones: "What I am not, that, that is God to me, and virtue!" And others are there who go along heavily and creakingly, like carts taking stones downhill: they talk much of dignity and virtue - their drag they call virtue!
 
 And others are there who are like eight-day clocks when wound up; they tick, and want people to call ticking - virtue.
 
 Truly, in those have I my amusement: wherever I find such clocks I shall wind them up with my mockery, and they shall even whirr thereby!
 
 And others are proud of their modicum of righteousness, and for the sake of it do violence to all things: so that the world is drowned in their unrighteousness.
 
 Ah! how ineptly comes the word "virtue" out of their mouth! And when they say: "I am just," it always sounds like: "I am just - revenged!" With their virtues they want to scratch out the eyes of their enemies; and they elevate themselves only that they may lower others.
 
 And again there are those who sit in their swamp, and speak thus from among the bulrushes: "Virtue - that is to sit quietly in the swamp.
 
 We bite no one, and go out of the way of him who would bite; and in all matters we have the opinion that is given us." 77 And again there are those who love attitudes, and think that virtue is a sort of attitude.
 
