One thing is forsakenness, another matter is lonesomeness: that have you now learned! And that among men you will ever be wild and strange: -Wild and strange even when they love you: for above all they want to be treated indulgently!
 
 Here, however, are you at home and house with yourself; here can you utter everything, and unbosom all motives; nothing is here ashamed of concealed, congealed feelings.
 
 Here do all things come caressingly to your talk and flatter you: for they want to ride upon your back. On every simile do you here ride to every truth.
 
 Uprightly and openly may you here talk to all things: and truly, it sounds as praise in their ears, for one to talk to all things - directly!
 
 Another matter, however, is forsakenness. For, do you remember, O Zarathustra? When your bird screamed overhead, when you stood in the forest, irresolute, ignorant where to go, beside a corpse:-When you spoke: 'Let my animals lead me! More dangerous have I found it among men than among animals:' - That was forsakenness!
 
 And do you remember, O Zarathustra? When you sat in your isle, a well of wine giving and granting among empty buckets, bestowing and distributing among the thirsty: -Until at last you alone sat thirsty among the drunken ones, and wailed nightly: 'Is taking not more blessed than giving? And stealing yet more blessed than taking?' - That was forsakenness!
 
 And do you remember, O Zarathustra? When your stillest hour came and drove you forth from yourself, when with wicked whispering it said: 'Speak and succumb!'-When it disgusted you with all your waiting and silence, and discouraged your humble courage: That was forsakenness!"O lonesomeness! My home, lonesomeness! How blessedly and tenderly speaks your voice to me!
 
 We do not question each other, we do not complain to each other; we go together openly through open doors.
 
 For all is open with you and clear; and even the hours run here on lighter feet. For in the dark, time weighs heavier upon one than in the light.
 
 Here fly open to me all beings' words and word-cabinets: here all being wants to become words, here all becoming wants to learn of me how to 146 talk.
 
