All that is un-homelike in the future, and whatever makes strayed birds shiver, is truly more homelike and familiar than your "reality." For thus speak you: "Real are we wholly, and without faith and superstition": thus do you plume yourselves - Alas. even without plumes!
 
 Indeed, how would you be able to believe, you divers-coloured ones! you who are pictures of all that has ever been believed!
 
 Perambulating refutations are you, of belief itself, and a dislocation of all thought. Unbelievable ones: thus do I call you, you real ones!
 
 All periods prate against one another in your spirits; and the dreams and pratings of all periods were even realer than your awakeness!
 
 Unfruitful are you: therefore do you lack belief. But he who had to create, had always his presaging dreams and astral premonitions - and believed in believing!Half-open doors are you, at which grave-diggers wait. And this is your reality: "Everything deserves to perish." Alas, how you stand there before me, you unfruitful ones; how lean your ribs! And many of you surely have had knowledge thereof.
 
 Many a one has said: "There has surely a God filched something from me secretly whilst I slept? Truly, enough to make a girl for himself from that!
 
 "Amazing is the poverty of my ribs!" thus has spoken many a presentday man.
 
 Yes, you are laughable to me, you present-day men! And especially when you marvel at yourselves!
 
 And woe to me if I could not laugh at your marvelling, and had to swallow all that is repugnant in your platters!
 
 As it is, however, I will make lighter of you, since I have to carry what is heavy; and what matter if beetles and May-bugs also alight on my load!
 
 Truly, it shall not on that account become heavier to me! And not from you, you present-day men, shall my great weariness arise.Ah, where shall I now ascend with my longing! From all mountains do I look out for fatherlands and motherlands.
 
 But a home have I found nowhere: unsettled am I in all cities, and decamping at all gates.
 
 Alien to me, and a mockery, are the present-day men, to whom of late my heart impelled me; and exiled am I from fatherlands and motherlands.
 
 Thus do I love only my children's land, the undiscovered in the 98 remotest sea: for it do I bid my sails search and search.
 
