Leave me alone! I am too pure for you. Touch me not!
 
 has not my world just now become perfect?
 
 My skin is too pure for your hands. Leave me alone, you dull, doltish, stupid day! Is not the midnight brighter?
 
 The purest are to be masters of the world, the least known, the strongest, the midnight-souls, who are brighter and deeper than any day.
 
 O day, you grope for me? you feel for my happiness? For you am I rich, lonesome, a treasure-pit, a gold chamber?
 
 O world, you want me? Am I worldly for you? Am I spiritual for you?
 
 Am I divine for you? But day and world, you are too coarse,-Have cleverer hands, grasp after deeper happiness, after deeper unhappiness, grasp after some God; grasp not after me: -My unhappiness, my happiness is deep, you strange day, but yet am I no God, no God's-hell: deep is its woe.
 
 8.
 
 God's woe is deeper, you strange world! Grasp at God's woe, not at me! What am I! A drunken sweet lyre,-A midnight-lyre, a bell-frog, which no one understands, but which must speak before deaf ones, you higher men! For you do not understand me!
 
 Gone! Gone! O youth! O noontide! O afternoon! Now have come evening and night and midnight, - the dog howls, the wind: -Is the wind not a dog? It whines, it barks, it howls. Ah! Ah! how she sighs! how she laughs, how she wheezes and pants, the midnight!
 
 How she just now speaks soberly, this drunken poetess! has she perhaps overdrunk her drunkenness? has she become overawake? does she ruminate?
 
 -Her woe does she ruminate over, in a dream, the old, deep midnight and still more her joy. For joy, although woe be deep, joy is deeper still than grief can be.
 
 9.
 
 You grape-vine! Why do you praise me? Have I not cut your! I am cruel, you bleed-: what means your praise of my drunken cruelty?
 
 "Whatever has become perfect, everything mature - wants to die!" so say you. Blessed, blessed be the vintner's knife! But everything immature wants to live: Alas.
 
 Woe says: "Hence! Go! Away, you woe!" But everything that suffers wants to live, that it may become mature and lively and longing, -Longing for the further, the higher, the brighter. "I want heirs," so says everything that suffers, "I want children, I do not want myself,"250 Joy, however, does not want heirs, it does not want children, - joy wants itself, it wants eternity, it wants recurrence, it wants everything eternally-like-itself.
 
