Hush! has not the world just now become perfect? Oh, for the golden round ball!"Get up," said Zarathustra, "you little thief, you sluggard! What! Still stretching yourself, yawning, sighing, failing into deep wells?
 
 Who are you then, O my soul!" (and here he became frightened, for a sunbeam shot down from heaven upon his face.) "O heaven above me," said he sighing, and sat upright, "you gaze at me? you listento my strange soul?
 
 When will you drink this drop of dew that fell down upon all earthly things, - when will you drink this strange soul-When, you well of eternity! you joyous, awful, noontide abyss! when will you drink my soul back into you?" Thus spoke Zarathustra, and rose from his couch beside the tree, as if awakening from a strange drunkenness: and Behold. there stood the sun still exactly above his head. One might, however, rightly infer from there that Zarathustra had not then slept long.
 
 Part 4, (11) The Greeting IT WAS late in the afternoon only when Zarathustra, after long useless searching and strolling about, again came home to his cave. When, however, he stood over against it, not more than twenty paces from there, the thing happened which he now least of all expected: he heard anew the great cry of distress. And extraordinary! this time the cry came out of his own cave. It was a long, manifold, peculiar cry, and Zarathustra plainly distinguished that it was composed of many voices: although heard at a distance it might sound like the cry out of a single mouth.
 
 Thereupon Zarathustra rushed forward to his cave, and Behold. what a spectacle awaited him after that concert! For there did they all sit together whom he had passed during the day: the king on the right and the king on the left, the old magician, the pope, the voluntary beggar, the shadow, the intellectually conscientious one, the sorrowful soothsayer, and the ass; the ugliest man, however, had set a crown on his head, and had put round him two purple girdles, - for he liked, like all ugly ones, to disguise himself and play the handsome person. In the midst, however, of that sorrowful company stood Zarathustra's eagle, ruffled 216 and disquieted, for it had been called upon to answer too much for which its pride had not any answer; the wise serpent however hung round its neck.
 
