All my hot tears in streamlets trickle Their course to you!
 
 And all my final hearty fervourUp-glows to you!
 
 Oh, come you back, My unfamiliar God! my pain!
 
 My final bliss!
 
 2.
 
 -Here, however, Zarathustra could no longer restrain himself; he took his staff and struck the wailer with all his might. "Stop this," cried he to him with wrathful laughter, "stop this, you stage-player! you false coiner! you liar from the very heart! I know you well!
 
 I will soon make warm legs to you, you evil magician: I know well how - to make it hot for such as you!" -"Leave off," said the old man, and sprang up from the ground, "strike me no more, O Zarathustra! I did it only for amusement!
 
 That kind of thing belongs to my art. you yourself, I wanted to put to the proof when I gave this performance. And truly, you have well detected me!
 
 But you yourself - have given me no small proof of yourself: you are hard, you wise Zarathustra! Hard strike you with your 'truths,' your cudgel forces from me - this truth!" -"Flatter not," answered Zarathustra, still excited and frowning, "you stage-player from the heart! you are false: why speak you - of truth!
 
 You peacock of peacocks, you sea of vanity; what didst you represent before me, you evil magician; whom was I meant to believe in when you wailed in such wise?" "The penitent in spirit," said the old man, "it was him - I represented; you yourself once devised this expression-The poet and magician who at last turns his spirit against himself, the transformed one who freezes to death by his bad science and conscience.
 
 And just acknowledge it: it was long, O Zarathustra, before you discovered my trick and lie! you believed in my distress when you held my head with both your hands,-I heard you lament 'we have loved him too little, loved him too little!' Because I so far deceived you, my wickedness rejoiced in me." "you may have deceived subtler ones than I," said Zarathustra sternly.
 
 "I am not on my guard against deceivers; I have to be without precaution: so wills my lot.
 
 198 You, however, - must deceive: so far do I know your!
 
