All this did Zarathustra behold with great astonishment; then however he scrutinised each individual guest with courteous curiosity, read their souls and wondered anew. In the meantime the assembled ones had risen from their seats, and waited with reverence for Zarathustra to speak.
 
 Zarathustra however spoke thus: "You despairing ones! you strange ones! So it was your cry of distress that I heard? And now do I know also where he is to be sought, whom I have sought for in vain today: the higher man-: -In my own cave sits he, the higher man! But why do I wonder! Have not I myself allured him to me by honey-offerings and artful lure-calls of my happiness?
 
 But it seems to me that you are badly adapted for company: you make one another's hearts fretful, you that cry for help, when you sit here together? There is one that must first come, -One who will make you laugh once more, a good jovial buffoon, a dancer, a wind, a wild romp, some old fool: - what think you?
 
 Forgive me, however, you despairing ones, for speaking such trivial words before you, unworthy, truly, of such guests! But you do not divine what makes my heart wanton:-You yourselves do it, and your aspect, forgive it me! For everyone becomes courageous who beholds a despairing one. To encourage a despairing one - everyone thinks himself strong enough to do so.
 
 To myself have you given this power, - a good gift, my honourable guests! An excellent guest's-present! Well, do not then upbraid when I also offer you something of mine.
 
 This is my empire and my dominion: that which is mine, however, shall this evening and tonight be yours. my animals shall serve you: let my cave be your resting-place!
 
 At house and home with me shall no one despair: in my purlieus do I protect everyone from his wild beasts. And that is the first thing which I offer you: security!
 
 The second thing, however, is my little finger. And when you have that, then take the whole hand also, yes and the heart with it! Welcome here, welcome to you, my guests!" Thus spoke Zarathustra, and laughed with love and mischief. After this greeting his guests bowed once more and were reverentially silent; the king on the right, however, answered him in their name.
 
 217 "O Zarathustra, by the way in which you have given us your hand and your greeting, we recognise you as Zarathustra.
 
