Becoming a Spiritual Adventurer What is Eternal Recurrence? (Also Called "Eternal Return") "This life, as you now live it, and have lived it, you must live it once more, and also innumerable times; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and every sigh, and everything unspeakably small and great in your life must come to you again, and all in the same series and sequence - even this spider and this moonlight among the trees, and even this moment, and I myself. The eternal hourglass of existence will ever be turned over and over again, and you with it … " From Nietzsche's book, 'The Gay Science', Section 341 Waking Up from the Social Dream About 40,000 years ago, during what is called the human 'Upper Paleolithic Revolution', our predictive capacities developed to the point where we saw our inevitable death. A tiger jumping at us out of the bushes was not necessary to scare the hell out of us. Our minds did it, and we mobilized to act. The result - 40 millennia of social fantasies.
 
 Tribal religions, spirits, afterworlds, legends, taboos, good and evils, social mores of conduct, superstitions … many of them delightful and moving but mostly lots of nervous low-level entertainment, social worries and bickering, see-saws of belief and doubt, all marinated in continuous mind chatter. In the last two millennia we have become more organized, more global, more cluttered in our social fantasies: nations, bibles, "history", "knowledge", astrology, universities, literature, science, religions and ideologies. It's time to realize the silliness of these fake worlds which are “bigger than us”, which give “meaning” to our “small lives”, where we in some way continue after death. We don't live on in heaven or hell or in God's lap or in a new body. We don't live on in our reputation or in our small contribution to science or scholarship or knowledge. We don't live on in the memories of those who knew us or in an invention or idea named after us or a book we wrote. We don't live 272 on in our good works or being a good citizen or "making the world a little better" or living a morally good life.
 
