But that you may understand my gospel of good and evil, for that purpose will I tell you my gospel of life, and of the nature of all living things.
 
 The living thing did I follow; I walked in the broadest and narrowest paths to learn its nature.
 
 With a hundred-faced mirror did I catch its glance when its mouth was shut, so that its eye might speak to me. And its eye spoke to me.
 
 But wherever I found living things, there heard I also the language of obedience. All living things are obeying things.
 
 And this heard I secondly: Whatever cannot obey itself, is commanded.
 
 Such is the nature of living things.
 
 This, however, is the third thing which I heard - namely, that commanding is more difficult than obeying. And not only because the commander bears the burden of all obeyers, and because this burden readily crushes him:An attempt and a risk seemed all commanding to me; and whenever it commands, the living thing risks itself thereby.
 
 Yes, even when it commands itself, then also must it atone for its commanding. Of its own law must it become the judge and avenger and victim.
 
 How does this happen! So did I ask myself. What persuades the living thing to obey, and command, and even be obedient in commanding?
 
 Listen now to my word, you wisest ones! Test it seriously, whether I have crept into the heart of life itself, and into the roots of its heart!
 
 Wherever I found a living thing, there found I Will to Power; and even in the will of the servant found I the will to be master.
 
 That to the stronger the weaker shall serve - to this persuades he his will who would be master over a still weaker one. That delight alone he is unwilling to forego.
 
 And as the lesser surrenders himself to the greater that he may have delight and power over the least of all, so does even the greatest surrender himself, and stakes - life, for the sake of power.
 
 It is the surrender of the greatest to run risk and danger, and play dice for death.
 
 And where there is sacrifice and service and love-glances, there also is the will to be master. By by-ways does the weaker then slink into the fortress, and into the heart of the mightier one - and there steals power.
 
 And this secret spoke Life herself to me. "Behold," said she, "I am that which must ever surpass itself.
 
 93 To be sure, you call it will to procreation, or impulse towards a goal, towards the higher, remoter, more manifold: but all that is one and the same secret.
 
