Recognised and tested shall each be, to see if he be of my type and lineage: - if he be master of a long will, silent even when he speaks, and giving in such wise that he takes in giving:-So that he may one day become my companion, a fellow-creator and fellow-enjoyer with Zarathustra: - such a one as writes my will on my tables, for the fuller perfection of all things.
 
 And for his sake and for those like him, must I perfect myself: therefore do I now avoid my happiness, and present myself to every misfortune for my final testing and recognition.
 
 And truly, it were time that I went away; and the wanderer's shadow and the longest tedium and the stillest hour - have all said to me: "It is the highest time!" The word blew to me through the keyhole and said "Come!" The door sprang subtly open to me, and said "Go!" But I lay enchained to my love for my children: desire spread this snare for me - the desire for love - that I should become the prey of my children, and lose myself in them.
 
 Desiring - that is now for me to have lost myself. I possess you, my children! In this possessing shall everything be assurance and nothing desire.
 
 But brooding lay the sun of my love upon me, in his own juice stewed Zarathustra, - then did shadows and doubts fly past me.
 
 For frost and winter I now longed: "Oh, that frost and winter would again make me crack and crunch!" sighed I: - then arose icy mist out of me.
 
 My past burst its tomb, many pains buried alike woke up: - fully slept had they merely, concealed in corpse-clothes.
 
 So called everything to me in signs: "It is time!" But I - heard not, until at last my abyss moved, and my thought bit me.
 
 Ah, abysmal thought, which are my thought! When shall I find strength to hear you burrowing, and no longer tremble?
 
 To my very throat throbs my heart when I hear them burrowing! your muteness even is like to strangle me, you abysmal mute one!
 
 As yet have I never ventured to call you up; it has been enough that I have carried you about with me! As yet have I not been strong enough for my final lion-wantonness and playfulness.
 
 Sufficiently formidable to me has your weight ever been: but one day shall I yet find the strength and the lion's voice which will call you up!
 
 129 When I shall have surmounted myself therein, then will I surmount myself also in that which is greater; and a victory shall be the seal of my perfection!
 
