you will one day cry: "All is false!" There are feelings which seek to slay the lonesome one; if they do not succeed, then must they themselves die! But are you capable of it - to be a murderer?
 
 have you ever known, my brother, the word "disdain"? And the anguish of your justice in being just to those that disdain you?
 
 You force many to think differently about you; that, charge they heavily to your account. you came nigh to them, and yet went past: for that they never forgive you.
 
 You go beyond them: but the higher you rise, the smaller does the eye of envy see you. Most of all, however, is the flying one hated.
 
 "How could you be just to me!" - must you say - "I choose your injustice as my allotted portion.
 
 Injustice and filth cast they at the lonesome one: but, my brother, if you would be a star, you must shine for them none the less on that account!
 
 And be on your guard against the good and just! They would rather crucify those who devise their own virtue - they hate the lonesome ones.
 
 Be on your guard, also, against holy simplicity! All is unholy to it that is not simple; rather, likewise, would it play with the fire - of the fagot and stake.
 
 And be on your guard, also, against the assaults of your love! Too readily does the recluse reach his hand to anyone who meets him.
 
 To many a one may you not give your hand, but only your paw; and I wish your paw also to have claws.
 
 But the worst enemy you can meet, will you yourself always be; you waylay yourself in caverns and forests.
 
 You lonesome one, you go the way to yourself! And past yourself and your seven devils leads your way!
 
 A heretic will you be to yourself, and a wizard and a soothsayer, and a fool, and a doubter, and a reprobate, and a villain.
 
 Ready must you be to burn yourself in your own flame; how could you become new if you have not first become ashes!
 
 You lonesome one, you go the way of the creating one: a God will you create for yourself out of your seven devils!
 
 You lonesome one, you go the way of the loving one: you love yourself, and on that account despise you yourself, as only the loving ones despise.
 
 To create, desires the loving one, because he despises! What knows he 55 of love who has not been obliged to despise just what he loved!
 
