"Behold." said the old helmsman, "there goes Zarathustra to hell!" About the same time that these sailors landed on the fire-isle, there was a rumour that Zarathustra had disappeared; and when his friends were asked about it, they said that he had gone on board a ship by night, without saying where he was going.
 
 Thus there arose some uneasiness. After three days, however, there came the story of the ship's crew in addition to this uneasiness - and then did all the people say that the devil had taken Zarathustra. His disciples laughed, sure enough, at this talk; and one of them said even: "Sooner would I believe that Zarathustra has taken the devil." But at the bottom of their hearts they were all full of anxiety and longing: so their joy was great when on the fifth day Zarathustra appeared among them.
 
 And this is the account of Zarathustra's interview with the fire-dog: The earth, said he, has a skin; and this skin has diseases. One of these diseases, for example, is called "man." And another of these diseases is called "the fire-dog": concerning him men have greatly deceived themselves, and let themselves be deceived.
 
 To fathom this mystery did I go over the sea; and I have seen the truth naked, truly! barefooted up to the neck.
 
 Now do I know how it is concerning the fire-dog; and likewise concerning all the spouting and subversive devils, of which not only old women are afraid.
 
 "Up with you, fire-dog, out of your depth!" cried I, "and confess how deep that depth is! Whence comes that which you snort up?
 
 You drink copiously at the sea: that does your embittered eloquence betray! In sooth, for a dog of the depth, you take your nourishment too much from the surface!
 
 At the most, I regard you as the ventriloquist of the earth: and ever, when I have heard subversive and spouting devils speak, I have found them like you: embittered, mendacious, and shallow.
 
 You understand how to roar and obscure with ashes! you are the best braggarts, and have sufficiently learned the art of making dregs boil.
 
 Where you are, there must always be dregs at hand, and much that is spongy, hollow, and compressed: it wants to have freedom.
 
 'Freedom' you all roar most eagerly: but I have unlearned the belief in 'great events,' when there is much roaring and smoke about them.
 
 And believe me, friend Hullabaloo! The greatest events - are not our noisiest, but our stillest hours.
 
 106 Not around the inventors of new noise, but around the inventors of new values, does the world revolve; inaudibly it revolves.
 
