so asks the weight-bearing spirit; then it kneels down like the camel, and wants to be well loaded.
 
 What is the heaviest thing, you heroes? asks the weight-bearing spirit, that I may take it upon me and rejoice in my strength.
 
 Is it not this: To humble oneself in order to hurt one's pride? To let one's folly shine in order to mock one's wisdom?
 
 Or is it this: To desert our cause when it celebrates its triumph? To climb high mountains to tempt the tempter?
 
 Or is it this: To feed on the acorns and grass of knowledge, and for the sake of truth to suffer hunger of soul?
 
 Or is it this: To be sick and send away comforters, and make friends with the deaf, who never hear what you wish?
 
 Or is it this: To wade into dirty water when it is the water of truth, and not repelling cold frogs and hot toads?
 
 Or is it this: To love those who despise us, and give one's hand to the phantom when it is going to frighten us?
 
 All these heaviest things the weight-bearing spirit takes upon itself: and like the camel, which, when burdened, speeds into the wilderness, so the spirit speeds into its wilderness.
 
 But in the loneliest wilderness the second metamorphosis happens: here the spirit becomes a lion; it will seize freedom, and become master in its own wilderness.
 
 Here it seeks its last master: it will fight him, and its last God; for victory it will struggle with the great dragon.
 
 What is the great dragon which the spirit is no longer inclined to call Lord and God? "You shall," is what great dragon is called. But the spirit of the lion says, "I will." "You shall," lies in its path, sparkling with gold - a beast covered with scales; and on every scale glitters a golden, "You shall!" The values of a thousand years glitter on those scales, and thus speaks the mightiest of all dragons: "All the values of all things - glitter on me.
 
 All values have already been created, and all created values - do I represent. Truly, there shall be no 'I will' any more. Thus speaks the dragon.
 
 My brothers, why is there need of the lion in the spirit? Why is it not enough the beast of burden, which renounces and is reverent?
 
 To create new values - that, even the lion cannot yet accomplish: but to create itself freedom for new creating - that can the might of the lion do.
 
 To create itself freedom, and give a holy No even to duty: for that, my brothers, there is need of the lion.
 
 To assume the right to new values - that is the most formidable 25 assumption for a weight-bearing and reverent spirit.
 
