When, however, he was four day-journeys from the Happy Isles and from his friends, then had he surmounted all his pain: - triumphantly and with firm foot did he again accept his fate. And then talked Zarathustra in this wise to his exulting conscience: Alone am I again, and like to be so, alone with the pure heaven, and the open sea; and again is the afternoon around me.
 
 On an afternoon did I find my friends for the first time; on an afternoon, also, did I find them a second time: - at the hour when all light becomes stiller.
 
 For whatever happiness is still on its way between heaven and earth, now seeks for lodging a luminous soul: with happiness has all light now become stiller.
 
 O afternoon of my life! Once did my happiness also descend to the valley that it might seek a lodging: then did it find those open hospitable souls.
 
 O afternoon of my life! What did I not surrender that I might have one thing: this living plantation of my thoughts, and this dawn of my highest hope!
 
 Companions did the creating one once seek, and children of his hope: and behold, it turned out that he could not find them, except he himself should first create them.
 
 Thus am I in the midst of my work, to my children going, and from them returning: for the sake of his children must Zarathustra perfect himself.
 
 For in one's heart one loves only one's child and one's work; and where there is great love to oneself, then is it the sign of pregnancy: so have I found it.
 
 Still are my children verdant in their first spring, standing close to one another, and shaken in common by the winds, the trees of my garden and of my best soil.
 
 And truly, where such trees stand beside one another, there are Happy Isles!
 
 But one day will I take them up, and put each by itself alone: that it may learn lonesomeness and defiance and prudence.
 
 Gnarled and crooked and with flexible hardness shall it then stand by the sea, a living lighthouse of unconquerable life.
 
 Yonder where the storms rush down into the sea, and the snout of the 128 mountain drinks water, shall each on a time have his day and night watches, for his testing and recognition.
 
