Much found I here called bad, which was there decked with purple honors.
 
 Never did the one neighbor understand the other: ever did his soul marvel at his neighbour's delusion and wickedness.
 
 A table of excellencies hangs over every people. Behold. it is the table of their triumphs; Behold. it is the voice of their Will to Power.
 
 It is laudable, what they think hard; what is indispensable and hard they call good; and what relieves in the direst distress, the unique and hardest of all, - they extol as holy.
 
 Whatever makes them rule and conquer and shine, to the dismay and envy of their neighbor, they regard as the high and foremost thing, the test and the meaning of all else.
 
 Truly, my brother, if you knew but a people's need, its land, its sky, and its neighbor, then would you divine the law of its surmountings, and why it climbs up that ladder to its hope.
 
 "Always shall you be the foremost and prominent above others: no one shall your jealous soul love, except a friend" - that made the soul of a Greek thrill: thereby went he his way to greatness.
 
 "To speak truth, and be skillful with bow and arrow" - so seemed it alike pleasing and hard to the people from whom comes my name - the name which is alike pleasing and hard to me.
 
 "To honor father and mother, and from the root of the soul to do their will" - this table of surmounting hung another people over them, and became powerful and permanent thereby.
 
 "To have fidelity, and for the sake of fidelity to risk honor and blood, even in evil and dangerous courses" - teaching itself so, another people mastered itself, and thus mastering itself, became pregnant and heavy with great hopes.
 
 Truly, men have given to themselves all their good and bad. Truly, they took it not, they found it not, it came not to them as a voice from heaven.
 
 Values did man only assign to things in order to maintain himself - he created only the significance of things, a human significance! Therefore, calls he himself "man," that is, the valuator.
 
 Valuing is creating: hear it, you creating ones! Valuation itself is the treasure and jewel of the valued things.
 
 Through valuation only is there value; and without valuation the nut of existence would be hollow. Hear it, you creating ones!
 
 Change of values - that is, change of the creating ones. Always does he 51 destroy who has to be a creator.
 
