He had not gone a hundred steps, when a man crept up to him and whispered in his ear - and behold it was the buffoon from the tower. "Leave this town, O Zarathustra," he said, "there are too many here who hate you. The good and just hate you, and call you their enemy and despiser; the believers in the true faith hate you, and call you a danger to the multitude. It was lucky for you that you were laughed at; and truly you spoke like a buffoon. It was your good fortune to associate with the dead dog; by so humiliating yourself you have saved your life for today. But leave this town, - or tomorrow I shall jump over you, a living man over a dead one." And when he had said this, the buffoon vanished; But Zarathustra went on through the dark streets.
 
 At the gate of the town the gravediggers met him: they shone their torch on his face, and, recognising Zarathustra, they greatly mocked him.
 
 "Zarathustra is carrying away the dead dog: a fine thing that Zarathustra has become a grave-digger! For our hands are too clean for this roast.
 
 Will Zarathustra rob the devil of his mouthful? Well then, good luck with your meal! If only the devil were not a better thief than Zarathustra!
 
 - he will steal them both, he will eat them both!" And they laughed and put their heads together.
 
 Zarathustra said nothing but went on his way. When he had gone on for two hours, past forests and swamps, he heard too much of the hungry howling of the wolves, and he himself became hungry. So he stopped at a lonely house in which a light was burning.
 
 "Hunger attacks me," said Zarathustra, "like a robber. Among forests and swamps my hunger attacks me, and late in the night.
 
 "My hunger has strange moods. Often it comes to me only after a meal, and today it did not come at all; where has it been?" And with that, Zarathustra knocked at the door of the house. An old man appeared, who carried a light, and asked: "Who comes to me and my bad sleep?" "A living man and a dead one," said Zarathustra. "Give me something to eat and drink, I forgot about it during the day. He that feeds the 20 hungry refreshes his own soul, thus speaks wisdom.
 
