" - "you old pope," said here Zarathustra interposing, "have you seen that with your eyes? It could well have happened in that way: in that way, and also otherwise. When gods die they always die many kinds of death.
 
 Well! At all events, one way or other - he is gone! He was counter to the taste of my ears and eyes; worse than that I should not like to say against him.
 
 I love everything that looks bright and speaks honestly. But he - you know it, indeed, you old priest, there was something of your type in him, the priest-type - he was equivocal.
 
 He was also indistinct. How he raged at us, this wrath-snorter, because we understood him badly! But why did he not speak more clearly?
 
 And if the fault lay in our ears, why did he give us ears that heard him badly? If there was dirt in our ears, well! who put it in them?
 
 Too much miscarried with him, this potter who had not learned thoroughly! That he took revenge on his pots and creations, however, because they turned out badly - that was a sin against good taste.
 
 There is also good taste in piety: this at last said: 'Away with such a God! Better to have no God, better to set up destiny on one's own account, better to be a fool, better to be God oneself!'" -"What do I hear!" said then the old pope, with intent ears; "O Zarathustra, you are more pious than you believe, with such an unbelief!
 
 Some god in you has converted you to your ungodliness.
 
 Is it not your piety itself which no longer lets you believe in a God?
 
 And your over-great honesty will yet lead you even beyond good and evil!
 
 Behold, what has been reserved for you? you have eyes and hands and mouth, which have been predestined for blessing from eternity. One does not bless with the hand alone.
 
 Nigh to you, though you profess to be the ungodliest one, I feel a hale and holy odour of long benedictions: I feel glad and grieved thereby.
 
 Let me be your guest, O Zarathustra, for a single night! Nowhere on earth shall I now feel better than with you!""Amen! So shall it be!" said Zarathustra, with great astonishment; "up there leads the way, there lies the cave of Zarathustra.
 
 Gladly, indeed, would I conduct you there myself, you venerable one; for I love all pious men. But now a cry of distress calls me hastily away from you.
 
 In my domain shall no one come to grief; my cave is a good haven.
 
 203 And best of all would I like to put every sorrowful one again on firm land and firm legs.
 
