And truly! Many a thing also that is our own is hard to bear! And many internal things in man are like the oyster - repulsive and slippery and hard to grasp;So that an elegant shell, with elegant adornment, must plead for them.
 
 But this art also must one learn: to have a shell, and a fine appearance, and sagacious blindness!
 
 Again, it deceives about many things in man, that many a shell is poor and pitiable, and too much of a shell. Much concealed goodness and power is never dreamt of; the choicest dainties find no tasters!
 
 Women know that, the choicest of them: a little fatter a little leaner - oh, how much fate is in so little!
 
 Man is difficult to discover, and to himself most difficult of all; often lies the spirit concerning the soul. So causes the spirit of gravity.
 
 He, however, has discovered himself who says: This is my good and evil: therewith has he silenced the mole and the dwarf, who say: "Good for all, evil for all." Truly, neither do I like those who call everything good, and this world the best of all. Those do I call the all-satisfied.
 
 All-satisfiedness, which knows how to taste everything, - that is not the best taste! I honour the refractory, fastidious tongues and stomachs, which have learned to say "I" and "Yes" and "No." To chew and digest everything, however - that is the genuine swinenature! Ever to say YE-A - that has only the ass learned, and those like it!Deep yellow and hot red - so wants my taste - it mixes blood with all colours. He, however, who whitewashes his house, betrays to me a whitewashed soul.
 
 With mummies, some fall in love; others with phantoms: both alike hostile to all flesh and blood - oh, how repugnant are both to my taste!
 
 For I love blood.
 
 And there will I not reside and abide where everyone spits and spews: that is now my taste, - rather would I live among thieves and perjurers.
 
 Nobody carries gold in his mouth.
 
 Still more repugnant to me, however, are all lick-spittles; and the most repugnant animal of man that I found, did I christen "parasite": it would not love, and would yet live by love.
 
 Unhappy do I call all those who have only one choice: either to become evil beasts, or evil beast-tamers. Among such would I not build my tabernacle.
 
 154 Unhappy do I also call those who have ever to wait, - they are repugnant to my taste - all the toll-gatherers and traders, and kings, and other landkeepers and shopkeepers.
 
