Your fullness looks forth over raging seas, and seeks and waits: the longing of over-fulness looks forth from the smiling heaven of your eyes!
 
 And truly, O my soul! Who could see your smiling and not melt into tears? The angels themselves melt into tears through the over-graciousness of your smiling.
 
 Your graciousness and over-graciousness, is it which will not complain and weep: and yet, O my soul, longs your smiling for tears, and your trembling mouth for sobs.
 
 "Is not all weeping complaining? And all complaining, accusing?" Thus speak you to yourself; and therefore, O my soul, will you rather smile than pour forth your grief-Than in gushing tears pour forth all your grief concerning your fullness, and concerning the craving of the vine for the vintager and vintageknife!
 
 But will you not weep, will you not weep forth your purple melancholy, then will you have to sing, O my soul! - Behold, I smile myself, who foretell you this: -you will have to sing with passionate song, until all seas turn calm to listen to your longing,-Until over calm longing seas the bark glides, the golden marvel, around the gold of which all good, bad, and marvellous things frisk:-Also many large and small animals, and everything that has light marvellous feet, so that it can run on violet-blue paths,-Towards the golden marvel, the spontaneous bark, and its master: he, however, is the vintager who waits with the diamond vintage-knife,-your great deliverer, O my soul, the nameless one - for whom future songs only will find names! And truly, already has your breath the fragrance of future songs,-Already glow you and dream, already drink you thirstily at all deep echoing wells of consolation, already reposes your melancholy in the bliss of future songs! - O my soul, now have I given you all, and even my last possession, and all my hands have become empty by you: - that I bade you sing, behold, that was my last thing to give!
 
 That I bade you sing, - say now, say: which of us now - owes thanks? Better still, however: sing to me, sing, O my soul! And let me thank you!
 
 Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 176 Part 3, (15) THE SECOND DANCE SONG 1.
 
