And just own to it! Little had ever taken place when your noise and smoke passed away. What, if a city did become a mummy, and a statue lay in the mud!
 
 And this do I say also to the overthrowers of statues: It is certainly the greatest folly to throw salt into the sea, and statues into the mud.
 
 In the mud of your contempt lay the statue: but it is just its law, that out of contempt, its life and living beauty grow again!
 
 With diviner features does it now arise, seducing by its suffering; and truly! it will yet thank you for overthrowing it, you subverters!
 
 This counsel, however, do I counsel to kings and churches, and to all that is weak with age or virtue - let yourselves be overthrown! That you may again come to life, and that virtue - may come to you!-" Thus spoke I before the fire-dog: then did he interrupt me sullenly, and asked: "Church? What is that?" "Church?" answered I, "that is a kind of state, and indeed the most mendacious. But remain quiet, you dissembling dog! you surely know your own species best!
 
 Like yourself the state is a dissembling dog; like you does it like to speak with smoke and roaring - to make believe, like you, that it speaks out of the heart of things.
 
 For it seeks by all means to be the most important creature on earth, the state; and people think it so." When I had said this, the fire-dog acted as if mad with envy. "What!" cried he, "the most important creature on earth? And people think it so?" And so much vapour and terrible voices came out of his throat, that I thought he would choke with vexation and envy.
 
 At last he became calmer and his panting subsided; as soon, however, as he was quiet, I said laughingly: "you are angry, fire-dog: so I am in the right about you!
 
 And that I may also maintain the right, hear the story of another firedog; he speaks actually out of the heart of the earth.
 
 Gold does his breath exhale, and golden rain: so does his heart desire.
 
 What are ashes and smoke and hot dregs to him!
 
 Laughter flitts from him like a variegated cloud; adverse is he to your gargling and spewing and grips in the bowels!
 
 The gold, however, and the laughter - these does he take out of the heart of the earth: for, that you may know it, - the heart of the earth is of gold." 107 When the fire-dog heard this, he could no longer endure to listen to me.
 
