- Now, however, this God has died. Before the populace, however, we will not be equal. you higher men, away from the marketplace!
 
 2.
 
 Before God! - Now however this God has died! you higher men, this God was your greatest danger.
 
 Only since he lay in the grave have you again arisen. Now only comes the great noontide, now only does the higher man become - master!
 
 Have you understood this word, O my brothers? you are frightened: do your hearts turn giddy? does the abyss here yawn for you? does the hell-hound here yelp at you?
 
 Well! Take heart! you higher men! Now only travails the mountain of the human future. God has died: now do we desire - the overman to live.
 
 3.
 
 The most careful ask to-day: "How is man to be maintained?" Zarathustra however asks, as the first and only one: "How is man to be surpassed?" The overman, I have at heart; that is the first and only thing to me - and not man: not the neighbour, not the poorest, not the sorriest, not the best.O my brothers, what I can love in man is that he is an over-going and a down-going. And also in you there is much that makes me love and hope.
 
 In that you have despised, you higher men, that makes me hope. For the great despisers are the great reverers.
 
 In that you have despaired, there is much to honour. For you have not learned to submit yourselves, you have not learned petty policy.
 
 For to-day have the petty people become master: they all preach submission and humility and policy and diligence and consideration and the long et cetera of petty virtues.
 
 Whatever is of the effeminate type, whatever originates from the servile type, and especially the populace-mishmash: - that wishes now to be master of all human destiny - O disgust! Disgust! Disgust!
 
 That asks and asks and never tires: "How is man to maintain himself best, longest, most pleasantly?" Thereby - are they the masters of today.
 
 These masters of today - surpass them, O my brothers - these petty people: they are the overman's greatest danger!
 
 Surpass, you higher men, the petty virtues, the petty policy, the sandgrain considerateness, the ant-hill trumpery, the pitiable comfortableness, the "happiness of the greatest number"-!
 
 223 And rather despair than submit yourselves.
 
