Behold, there leads the way to my cave: be tonight its guest. And talk to my animals of the happiness of animals,-Until I myself come home. For now a cry of distress calls me hastily away from you. Also, should you find new honey with me, ice-cold, golden-comb-honey, eat it!
 
 Now, however, take leave at once of your cows, you strange one! you amiable one! though it be hard for you. For they are your warmest friends and preceptors!"-"One excepted, whom I hold still dearer," answered the voluntary beggar. "you yourself are good, O Zarathustra, and better even than a cow!" "Away, away with your! You evil flatterer!" cried Zarathustra mischievously, "why do you spoil me with such praise and flattery- honey?
 
 "Away, away from me!" cried he once more, and heaved his stick at the fond beggar, who, however, ran nimbly away.
 
 Part 4, (9) THE SHADOW SCARCELY however was the voluntary beggar gone in haste, and Zarathustra again alone, when he heard behind him a new voice which called out: "Stay! Zarathustra! Do wait! It is myself, indeed, O Zarathustra, myself, your shadow!" But Zarathustra did not wait; for a sudden irritation came over him on account of the crowd and the crowding in his mountains. "where has my lonesomeness gone?" spoke he.
 
 "It is truly becoming too much for me; these mountains swarm; my kingdom is no longer of this world; I require new mountains.
 
 My shadow calls me? What matter about my shadow! Let it run after me! I - run away from it." Thus spoke Zarathustra to his heart and ran away. But the one behind followed after him, so that immediately there were three runners, one after the other - namely, foremost the voluntary beggar, then Zarathustra, and thirdly, and hindmost, his shadow. But not long had they run thus when Zarathustra became conscious of his folly, and shook off with one jerk all his irritation and detestation.
 
 "What!" said he, "have not the most ludicrous things always happened to us old hermits and saints?
 
 Truly, my folly has grown big in the mountains! Now do I hear six old 211 fools' legs rattling behind one another!
 
