" And all the people laughed at Zarathustra. But the tightrope walker, who thought the words were for him, began his performance.
 
 Prologue (4) 4 Zarathustra, however, looked at the people and wondered. Then he spoke thus: Man is a rope stretched between animal and overman - a rope over an abyss.
 
 A dangerous crossing, a dangerous on-the-way, a dangerous lookingback, a dangerous trembling and stopping.
 
 What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal: what can be loved in man is that he is an over-going and a down-going.
 
 I love those who know not how to live except as down-goers, for they are the over-goers.
 
 I love the great despisers, because they are the great reverers, and arrows of longing for the other shore.
 
 I love those who do not first seek a reason beyond the stars for going down and being sacrifices, but sacrifice themselves to the earth, that the earth of the overman may some day arrive.
 
 I love him who lives in order to know, and seeks to know in order that the overman may someday live. Thus he seeks his own down-going.
 
 I love him who works and invents, that he may build a house for the overman, and prepare for him earth, animal, and plant: for thus he seeks his own down-going.
 
 I love him who loves his virtue: for virtue is the will to down-going, and an arrow of longing.
 
 I love him who reserves no drop of spirit for himself, but wants to be entirely the spirit of his virtue: thus he walks as spirit over the bridge.
 
 I love him who makes his virtue his addiction and destiny: thus, for the sake of his virtue, he is willing to live on, or live no more.
 
 I love him who does not desire too many virtues. One virtue is more of a virtue than two, because it is more of a knot for one's destiny to cling to.
 
 I love him whose soul squanders itself, who wants no thanks and gives none back: for he always gives, and desires not to preserve himself.
 
 15 I love him who is ashamed when the dice fall in his favor, and who then asks: "Am I a dishonest player?
 
