When I came to men, then found I them resting on an old infatuation: all of them thought they had long known what was good and bad for men.
 
 An old wearisome business seemed to them all discourse about virtue; and he who wished to sleep well spoke of "good" and "bad" ere retiring to rest.
 
 This somnolence did I disturb when I taught that no one yet knows what is good and bad: - unless it be the creating one!
 
 -It is he, however, who creates man's goal, and gives to the earth its meaning and its future: he only effects it that aught is good or bad.
 
 And I bade them upset their old academic chairs, and wherever that old infatuation had sat; I bade them laugh at their great moralists, their saints, their poets, and their saviours.
 
 At their gloomy sages did I bid them laugh, and whoever had sat admonishing as a black scarecrow on the tree of life.
 
 On their great grave-highway did I seat myself, and even beside the carrion and vultures - and I laughed at all their bygone and its mellow decaying glory.
 
 Truly, like penitential preachers and fools did I cry wrath and shame on all their greatness and smallness. Oh, that their best is so very small!
 
 Oh, that their worst is so very small! Thus did I laugh.
 
 Thus did my wise longing, born in the mountains, cry and laugh in me; a wild wisdom, truly! - my great pinion-rustling longing.
 
 And oft did it carry me off and up and away and in the midst of laughter; then flew I quivering like an arrow with sun-intoxicated rapture: -Out into distant futures, which no dream has yet seen, into warmer souths than ever sculptor conceived, - where gods in their dancing are ashamed of all clothes: (That I may speak in parables and halt and stammer like the poets: and truly I am ashamed that I have still to be a poet!) Where all becoming seemed to me dancing of gods, and wantoning of gods, and the world unloosed and unbridled and fleeing back to itself:-As an eternal self-fleeing and re-seeking of one another of many gods, as the blessed self-contradicting, recommuning, and refraternising with one another of many gods:Where all time seemed to me a blessed mockery of moments, where necessity was freedom itself, which played happily with the goad of freedom:156 Where I also found again my old devil and arch-enemy, the spirit of gravity, and all that it created: constraint, law, necessity and consequence and purpose and will and good and evil:For must there not be that which is danced over, danced beyond?
 
