-A handbreadth of basis: thereon can one stand. In the true knowingknowledge there is nothing great and nothing small." "Then you are perhaps an expert on the leech?" asked Zarathustra; "and you investigate the leech to its ultimate basis, you conscientious one?" "O Zarathustra," answered the trodden one, "that would be something immense; how could I presume to do so!
 
 That, however, of which I am master and knower, is the brain of the leech: - that is my world!
 
 And it is also a world! Forgive it, however, that my pride here finds expression, for here I have not my equal. Therefore said I: 'here am I at home.' How long have I investigated this one thing, the brain of the leech, so that here the slippery truth might no longer slip from me! Here is my domain!
 
 -For the sake of this did I cast everything else aside, for the sake of this did everything else become indifferent to me; and close beside my knowledge lies my black ignorance.
 
 My spiritual conscience requires from me that it should be so - that I should know one thing, and not know all else: they are a loathing to me, all the semi-spiritual, all the hazy, hovering, and visionary.
 
 Where my honesty ceases, there am I blind, and want also to be blind.
 
 Where I want to know, however, there want I also to be honest - namely, severe, rigorous, restricted, cruel and inexorable.
 
 Because you once said, O Zarathustra: 'Spirit is life which itself cuts into life'; - that led and allured me to your doctrine. And truly, with my own blood have I increased my own knowledge!" -"As the evidence indicates," broke in Zarathustra; for still was the blood flowing down on the naked arm of the conscientious one. For there had ten leeches bitten into it.
 
 "O you strange fellow, how much does this very evidence teach me namely, you yourself! And not all, perhaps, might I pour into your rigorous ear!
 
 Well then! We part here! But I would rather find you again. Up there is the way to my cave: to-night shall you there by my welcome guest!
 
 Rather would I also make amends to your body for Zarathustra treading upon you with his feet: I think about that. Just now, however, a cry of distress calls me hastily away from you." Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 194 Part 4, (5) THE MAGICIAN 1.
 
