After a while consciousness returned to the shattered man, and he saw Zarathustra kneeling beside him. "What are you doing here?" said he at last, "I knew long ago that the devil would trip me up. Now he drags me to hell. will you prevent him?" "On my honor, friend," answered Zarathustra, "there is nothing of this that you speak: there is no devil and no hell. Your soul will be dead even sooner than your body; therefore, fear nothing more!" The man looked up distrustfully. "If you speak the truth," he said, "I lose nothing when I lose my life. I am not much more than an animal which has been taught to dance by blows and a few meager morsels." "Not at all," said Zarathustra, "you have made danger your calling; there is nothing contemptible in that. Now you perish by your calling: therefore I will bury you with my own hands." When Zarathustra had said this the dying one did not reply further; but he moved his hand as if he sought the hand of Zarathustra in gratitude.
 
 Prologue (7) 7 Meanwhile the evening came on, and the market-place was veiled in darkness. Then the people dispersed, for even curiosity and terror become fatigued. However Zarathustra still sat beside the dead man on the ground, absorbed in thought so that he forgot the time. At last it became night, and a cold wind blew upon the lonely one. Then Zarathustra arose and said to his heart: Truly, a fine catch of fish has Zarathustra made to-day! It is not a man he has caught, but a corpse.
 
 Uncanny is human existence and as yet without meaning: a buffoon can become a man's fate and fatality.
 
 I want to teach men the meaning of their existence, which is the overman, the lightning out of the dark cloud of man.
 
 But I am still far from them, and my sense speaks not to their senses.
 
 To men I am still something between a fool and a corpse.
 
 Dark is the night, Dark are the ways of Zarathustra. Come, you cold and stiff companion! I will carry you to the place where I may bury you with my own hands.
 
 19 Prologue (8) 8 When Zarathustra had said this to his heart, he put the corpse on his shoulders and set out on his way.
 
