Should one lay hold of them, then do they raise a dust like flour-sacks, and involuntarily: but who would divine that their dust came from corn, and from the yellow delight of the summer fields?
 
 When they give themselves out as wise, then do their petty sayings and truths chill me: in their wisdom there is often an odour as if it came from the swamp; and truly, I have even heard the frog croak in it!
 
 Clever are they - they have dexterous fingers: what does my simplicity pretend to beside their multiplicity! All threading and knitting and weaving do their fingers understand: thus do they make the hose of the spirit!
 
 Good clockworks are they: only be careful to wind them up properly!
 
 Then do they indicate the hour without mistake, and make a modest noise thereby.
 
 Like millstones do they work, and like pestles: throw only seed-corn to them! - they know well how to grind corn small, and make white dust out of it.
 
 They keep a sharp eye on one another, and do not trust each other the best. Ingenious in little artifices, they wait for those whose knowledge walks on lame feet, - like spiders do they wait.
 
 I saw them always prepare their poison with precaution; and always did they put glass gloves on their fingers in doing so.
 
 They also know how to play with false dice; and so eagerly did I find them playing, that they perspired thereby.
 
 We are alien to each other, and their virtues are even more repugnant to my taste than their falsehoods and false dice.
 
 And when I lived with them, then did I live above them. Therefore did they take a dislike to me.
 
 They want to hear nothing of anyone walking above their heads; and so they put wood and earth and rubbish between me and their heads.
 
 Thus did they deafen the sound of my tread: and least have I thus far been heard by the most learned.
 
 All mankind's faults and weaknesses did they put between themselves and me: - they call it "false ceiling" in their houses.
 
 But nevertheless I walk with my thoughts above their heads; and even should I walk on my own errors, still would I be above them and their heads.
 
 For men are not equal: so speaks justice. And what I will, they may not will! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 102 Part 2, (17) POETS "SINCE I have known the body better" - said Zarathustra to one of his disciples - "the spirit has only been to me symbolically spirit; and all the 'imperishable' - that is also but a simile.
 
