And whenever I lift a curtain, a night-moth rushes out of it.
 
 Did it perhaps squat there along with another night-moth? For everywhere do I smell small concealed communities; and wherever there are closets there are new devotees therein, and the atmosphere of devotees.
 
 They sit for long evenings beside one another, and say: "Let us again become like little children and say, 'good God!'" - ruined in mouths and stomachs by the pious confectioners.
 
 Or they look for long evenings at a crafty, lurking cross-spider, that preaches prudence to the spiders themselves, and teaches that "under crosses it is good for cobweb-spinning!" Or they sit all day at swamps with angle-rods, and on that account think themselves profound; but whoever fishes where there are no fish, I do not even call him superficial!
 
 Or they learn in godly-gay style to play the harp with a hymn-poet, who would rather harp himself into the heart of young girls: - for he has tired of old girls and their praises.
 
 Or they learn to shudder with a learned semi-madcap, who waits in darkened rooms for spirits to come to him - and the spirit runs away entirely!
 
 Or they listen to an old roving howl - and growl-piper, who has learned from the sad winds the sadness of sounds; now pips he as the wind, and preaches sadness in sad strains.
 
 And some of them have even become night-watchmen: they know now how to blow horns, and go about at night and awaken old things which have long fallen asleep.
 
 Five words about old things did I hear yesternight at the garden-wall: they came from such old, sorrowful, arid night-watchmen.
 
 "For a father he cars not sufficiently for his children: human fathers do this better!""He is too old! He now cars no more for his children," - answered the other night-watchman.
 
 "has he then children? No one can prove it unless he himself prove it! I have long wished that he would for once prove it thoroughly." "Prove? As if he had ever proved anything! Proving is difficult to him; he lays great stress on one's believing him." "Ay! Ay! Belief saves him; belief in him. That is the way with old 144 people!
 
