Now be you friends the heirs of my goal; to you throw I the golden ball.
 
 Best of all, do I see you, my friends, throw the golden ball! And so tarry I still a little while on the earth - pardon me for it!
 
 Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 1, (22) THE BESTOWING VIRTUE 1.
 
 When Zarathustra had taken leave of the town to which his heart was attached, the name of which is "The Pied Cow," there followed him many people who called themselves his disciples, and kept him company.
 
 Thus came they to a crossroads. Then Zarathustra told them that he now wanted to go alone; for he was fond of going alone. His disciples, however, presented him at his departure with a staff, on the golden handle of which a serpent twined round the sun. Zarathustra rejoiced on account of the staff, and supported himself thereon; then spoke he thus to his disciples: Tell me, pray: how came gold to the highest value? Because it is uncommon, and unprofiting, and beaming, and soft in lustre; it always bestows itself.
 
 Only as image of the highest virtue came gold to the highest value.
 
 Goldlike, beams the glance of the bestower. Gold-lustre makes peace between moon and sun.
 
 Uncommon is the highest virtue, and unprofiting, beaming is it, and soft of lustre: a bestowing virtue is the highest virtue.
 
 Truly, I divine you well, my disciples: you strive like me for the bestowing virtue. What should you have in common with cats and wolves?
 
 It is your thirst to become sacrifices and gifts yourselves: and therefore have you the thirst to accumulate all riches in your soul.
 
 Insatiably strives your soul for treasures and jewels, because your virtue is insatiable in desiring to bestow.
 
 You constrain all things to flow towards you and into you, so that they shall flow back again out of your fountain as the gifts of your love.
 
 Truly, an appropriator of all values must such bestowing. love become; but healthy and holy, call I this selfishness.Another selfishness is there, an all-too-poor and hungry kind, which 63 would always steal - the selfishness of the sick, the sickly selfishness.
 
