But the wind, which we see not, troubles and bends it as it tilts. We are sorest bent and troubled by invisible hands." Thereupon the youth arose disconcerted, and said: "I hear Zarathustra, and just now was I thinking of him!" Zarathustra answered: "Why are you frightened on that account? - But it is the same with man as with the tree.
 
 The more he seeks to rise into the height and light, the more vigorously do his roots struggle earthward, downward, into the dark and deep - into the evil." "Yes, into the evil!" cried the youth. "How is it possible that you have discovered my soul?" Zarathustra smiled, and said: "Many a soul one will never discover, unless one first invent it." "Yes, into the evil!" cried the youth once more.
 
 "you said the truth, Zarathustra. I trust myself no longer since I sought to rise into the height, and nobody trusts me any longer; how does that happen?
 
 I change too quickly: my to-day refutes my yesterday. I often overleap the steps when I clamber; for so doing, none of the steps pardons me.
 
 When aloft, I find myself always alone. No one speaks to me; the frost of solitude makes me tremble. What do I seek on the height?
 
 My contempt and my longing increase together; the higher I clamber, the more do I despise him who clambers. What does he seek on the height?
 
 How ashamed I am of my clambering and stumbling! How I mock at my violent panting! How I hate him who flies! How tired I am on the height!" Here the youth was silent. And Zarathustra contemplated the tree beside which they stood, and spoke thus: "This tree stands lonely here on the hills; it has grown up high above man and beast.
 
 And if it wanted to speak, it would have none who could understand it: so high has it grown.
 
 Now it waits and waits, - for what does it wait? It dwells too close to the seat of the clouds; it waits perhaps for the first lightning?" When Zarathustra had said this, the youth called out with violent gestures: "Yes, Zarathustra, you speak the truth. My destruction I longed 38 for, when I desired to be on the height, and you are the lightning for which I waited!
 
