Thank goodness we don't remember, for it would rob life of its freshness, excitement and surprise.
 
 Waking up - Making the World Appear.
 
 Animals dream and probably day-dream but most of the time, assuming they haven't been made neurotic by contact with humans, they are awake, the world appears before them and becomes the center stage of their lives. Humans live in an opposite manner. The center stage is their social fantasies while they flitting-ly and mechanically check in and act upon the world around them. Ancient Eastern wisdom is full of hopes and techniques for quieting the mind, for enlightenment, satori and awakening. But we are all still mesmerized and fooled by man's 40,000 year old project of avoiding personal death through projecting our “selves” into social dreams, moralities, hopes, projects, plans, legends, good and evils.
 
 In believing in personal eternal recurrence, that our life is completely solid, repeating itself forever, the “self” becomes unimportant. This “self” is always what you imagine what others imagine what you are.
 
 All this social imagining becomes silly to you. You're left with the world that appears before you.
 
 Eternal Recurrence and the Will to Laughter Awareness is the world's mystical experience.
 
 Nietzsche thought that the basic "stuff" of the world was not atoms or love or survival or God but the "will to power". I accept power as the best candidate, but I propose a complimentary yin-yang partner. I call it the “will to laughter" (or just "laughter" if "power" is its partner) and it is intimately involved with Eternal Recurrence. It is the world's delight and happiness in its own useless dance, the eternal laughable folly of power, the lightness of awareness, the freedom of not wanting or having to make the world better.
 
 We humans waste life on a neurotic, futile, social fantasy flight from our personal death. We have lost the majestic awareness that animals have for their world. What we consider most powerful, our "consciousness" or “mind”, this chatterbox mish-mosh of awareness, thought, head-dancing and fantasy-world, is a clown, forever laughable.
 
 276 We haven't even come close to seeing or accepting the first basic truth of our modern situation, that technology is life's way of making a species weaker.
 
