No. With Nietzsche (Ecce Homo, Preface, Section 2), I don't believe in "ideals" which bring us to any "higher level". Effort towards an ideal is a comic activity. There is no hierarchy of levels of happiness-suffering, only near-infinite colors of happiness-suffering. Your spirit, which changes you effortlessly, will determine if and how the thought of eternal recurrence will affect you.
 
 There are higher types of human beings, the non-neurotic types, but they appear by uncontrollable fate, not choice and effort. In fact, ideal, choice and effort together are the symptoms of neurosis.
 
 Nietzsche's hints at eugenics were a major blunder. Humans are just too stupid to use eugenics to create a higher species. Following their "ideals", they would probably sterilize everyone with an SAT math score lower than 700, not realizing that concept manipulation is one of the most useless forms of intelligence. They would slice out the "gene for aggression" so we would be all peaceful and cooperative and orderly and dull. "Making the world better" is full of laughs.
 
 No Ideals? Does This Mean We Value Nothing?
 
 We constantly bring value into the world, every moment, by every act or non-act we make. Life is a dance of giving value. Placing value is the joy of life, is life itself. But this happens only on a local, immediate level, in awareness-space, never on fantasies called eternal "values", "ideas" and "ideals". When someone speaks up at a political or religious meeting, it is to stimulate or hearten those real people at that meeting. Most of the time he does it with fantasies of one kind or another, but it's the excitement in those bodies which produces his own excitement. The fact that the magic of ideals come and go, that we argue over them, that different cultures and sub-cultures have opposite ideals, shows they are not "eternal" and never will be. There is forever a dance between belief and non-belief and there's no way of not dancing. The eternal "will to laughter" is shinning through.
 
 281 Equal Happiness-Suffering for All?
 
