Must there not, for the sake of the nimble, the nimblest, - be moles and clumsy dwarfs? 3.
 
 There was it also where I picked up from the path the word "overman," and that man is something that must be surpassed.
 
 -That man is a bridge and not a goal - rejoicing over his noontides and evenings, as advances to new rosy dawns: -The Zarathustra word of the great noontide, and whatever else I have hung up over men like purple evening-afterglows.
 
 Truly, also new stars did I make them see, along with new nights; and over cloud and day and night, did I spread out laughter like a gay-coloured canopy.
 
 I taught them all my poetisation and aspiration: to compose and collect into unity what is fragment in man, and riddle and fearful chance;-As composer, riddle-reader, and redeemer of chance, did I teach them to create the future, and all that has been - to redeem by creating.
 
 The past of man to redeem, and every "It was" to transform, until the Will says: "But so did I will it! So shall I will it-" -This did I call redemption; this alone taught I them to call redemption.
 
 - Now do I await my redemption - that I may go to them for the last time.
 
 For once more will I go to men: among them will my sun set; in dying will I give them my choicest gift!
 
 From the sun did I learn this, when it goes down, the exuberant one: gold does it then pour into the sea, out of inexhaustible riches,-So that the poorest fisherman rows even with golden oars! For this did I once see, and did not tire of weeping in beholding it. - Like the sun will also Zarathustra go down: now sits he here and waits, old broken tables around him, and also new tables - half-written.
 
 4.
 
 Behold, here is a new table; but where are my brothers who will carry it with me to the valley and into hearts of flesh?Thus demands my great love to the remotest ones: be not considerate of your neighbour! Man is something that must be surpassed.
 
 There are many divers ways and modes of surpassing: see you to this!
 
 157 But only a buffoon thinks: "man can also be overleapt.
 
