Heartily, truly, even when I creep into bed-: there, still laughs and wantons my hidden happiness; even my deceptive dream laughs.
 
 I, a - creeper? Never in my life did I creep before the powerful; and if ever I lied, then did I lie out of love. Therefore am I glad even in my winter-bed.
 
 A poor bed warms me more than a rich one, for I am jealous of my poverty. And in winter she is most faithful to me.
 
 With a wickedness do I begin every day: I mock at the winter with a cold bath: on that account grumbles my stern house-mate.
 
 Also do I like to tickle him with a wax-taper, that he may finally let the heavens emerge from ashy-grey twilight.
 
 For especially wicked am I in the morning: at the early hour when the pail rattles at the well, and horses neigh warmly in grey lanes:Impatiently do I then wait, that the clear sky may finally dawn for me, the snow-bearded winter-sky, the hoary one, the white-head,-The winter-sky, the silent winter-sky, which often stifles even its sun!
 
 Did I perhaps learn from it the long clear silence? Or did it learn it from me? Or has each of us devised it himself?
 
 Of all good things the origin is a thousandfold, - all good roguish things spring into existence for joy: how could they always do so - for once only!
 
 A good roguish thing is also the long silence, and to look, like the winter-sky, out of a clear, round-eyed countenance:-Like it to stifle one's sun, and one's inflexible solar will: truly, this art and this winter-roguishness have I learned well!
 
 My best-loved wickedness and art is it, that my silence has learned not to betray itself by silence.
 
 Clattering with diction and dice, I outwit the solemn assistants: all those stern watchers, shall my will and purpose elude.
 
 That no one might see down into my depth and into my ultimate will for that purpose did I devise the long clear silence.
 
 Many a shrewd one did I find: he veiled his countenance and made his water muddy, that no one might see therethrough and thereunder.
 
 But precisely to him came the shrewder distrusters and nut-crackers: precisely from him did they fish his best-concealed fish!
 
 But the clear, the honest, the transparent - these are for me the wisest silent ones: in them, so profound is the depth that even the clearest water 138 does not - betray it.
 
