Is not wounded vanity the mother of all tragedies? Where, however, pride is wounded, there grows up something better than pride.
 
 That life may be fair to behold, its game must be well played; for that purpose, however, it needs good actors.
 
 Good actors have I found all the vain ones: they play, and wish people to be fond of beholding them - all their spirit is in this wish.
 
 They represent themselves, they invent themselves; in their neighbourhood I like to look upon life - it curs of melancholy.
 
 Therefore am I forbearing to the vain, because they are the physicians of my melancholy, and keep me attached to man as to a drama.
 
 And further, who conceives the full depth of the modesty of the vain man! I am favourable to him, and sympathetic on account of his modesty.
 
 From you would he learn his belief in himself; he feeds upon your glances, he eats praise out of your hands.
 
 Your lies does he even believe when you lie favourably about him: for in its depths sighs his heart: "What am I?" And if that be the true virtue which is unconscious of itself - well, the vain man is unconscious of his modesty!This is, however, my third manly prudence: I am not put out of conceit with the wicked by your timorousness.
 
 I am happy to see the marvels the warm sun hatches: tigers and palms and rattlesnakes.
 
 Also among men there is a beautiful brood of the warm sun, and much that is marvellous in the wicked.
 
 In truth, as your wisest did not seem to me so very wise, so found I also human wickedness below the fame of it.
 
 And oft did I ask with a shake of the head: Why still rattle, you rattlesnakes?
 
 Truly, there is still a future even for evil! And the warmest south is still undiscovered by man.
 
 How many things are now called the worst wickedness, which are only twelve feet broad and three months long! Some day, however, will greater dragons come into the world.
 
 For that the overman may not lack his dragon, the super-dragon that is worthy of him, there must still much warm sun glow on moist virgin forests!
 
 Out of your wild cats must tigers have evolved, and out of your poison-toads, crocodiles: for the good hunter shall have a good hunt!
 
 116 And truly, you good and just!
 
