With this book I open my campaign against morality… . This yessaying book projects its light, its love, its tenderness, over all evil things, it restores to them their soul, their clear conscience, and their superior right and privilege to exist on earth. Morality is not assailed, it simply ceases to be considered… ." [3] part 6, sec. 1 "… The question concerning the origin of moral valuations is therefore a matter of the highest importance to me because it determines the future of mankind. The demand made upon us to believe that everything is really in the best hands, that a certain book, the Bible, gives us the definite and comforting assurance that there is a Providence that wisely rules the fate of man,-when translated back into reality amounts simply to this, namely, the will to stifle the truth which maintains the reverse of all this, which is that until now man has been in the worst possible hands, and that he has been governed by the physiologically botched, the men of cunning and burning revengefulness, and the so-called " saints " those slanderers of the world and violators of humanity… . ." [3] part 7, sec. 2 THE GAY SCIENCE Age 37 - 1881 "[This book] seems to be written with the language of the wind that melts ice and snow: high spirits, unrest, contradiction, and the weather of April are present in it… . Thankfulness comes out of it continuously, as if something unexpected had just happened - the thankfulness of a convalescent - for his convalescence was not expected. "Gay Science": that signifies the celebration of a spirit who has resisted patiently a terrible, long pressure - patiently, severely, coldly, never submitting, but also without hope - and now all at once hope has attacked him, the hope for health, and the intoxication of a convalescent."[9] Preface, sec. 1 "… Dawn of Day is a yes-saying book, profound, but clear and kindly.
 
 The same applies once more and in the highest degree to La Gaya Scienza : in almost every sentence of this book, profundity and playfulness go gently hand in hand… ." [3] part 8, sec. 1 266 THUS SPOKE ZARATHUSTRA Age 39 - 1882-85 "…
 
