And however high be your height, many of them must rise up to you: your boat shall not rest much longer on dry ground.
 
 And that we despairing ones have now come into your cave, and already no longer despair: - it is but a prognostic and a presage that better ones are on the way to you,-For they themselves are on the way to you, the last remnant of God among men - that is to say, all the men of great longing, of great loathing, of great satiety, -All who do not want to live unless they learn again to hope - unless they learn from you, O Zarathustra, the great hope!" Thus spoke the king on the right, and seized the hand of Zarathustra in order to kiss it; but Zarathustra checked his veneration, and stepped back frightened, fleeing as it were, silently and suddenly into the far distance. After a little while, however, he was again at home with his guests, looked at them with clear scrutinising eyes, and said: "My guests, you higher men, I will speak plain language and plainly with you. It is not for you that I have waited here in these mountains." ("'Plain language and plainly?' Good God!" said here the king on the left to himself; "one sees he does not know the good Occidentals, this sage out of the Orient!
 
 But he means 'blunt language and bluntly' - well! That is not the worst taste in these days!") "You may, truly, all of you be higher men," continued Zarathustra; "but for me - you are neither high enough, nor strong enough.
 
 For me, that is to say, for the inexorable which is now silent in me, but will not always be silent. And if you appertain to me, still it is not as my right arm.
 
 For he who himself stands, like you, on sickly and tender legs, wishes above all to be treated indulgently, whether he be conscious of it or hide it from himself.
 
 My arms and my legs, however, I do not treat indulgently, I do not treat my warriors indulgently: how then could you be fit for my warfare?
 
 With you I should spoil all my victories. And many of you would tumble over if you but heard the loud beating of my drums.
 
 Moreover, you are not sufficiently beautiful and well-born for me. I require pure, smooth mirrors for my doctrines; on your surface even my own likeness is distorted.
 
 On your shoulders presses many a burden, many a recollection; many a mischievous dwarf squats in your corners. There is concealed populace 219 also in you.
 
