Truly, he who here towered aloft his thoughts in stone, knew as well as the wisest ones about the secret of life!
 
 That there is struggle and inequality even in beauty, and war for power and supremacy: that does he here teach us in the plainest parable.
 
 How divinely do vault and arch here contrast in the struggle: how with light and shade they strive against each other, the divinely striving ones.Thus, steadfast and beautiful, let us also be enemies, my friends! Divinely will we strive against one another!Alas. There has the tarantula bit me myself, my old enemy! Divinely steadfast and beautiful, it has bit me on the finger!
 
 "Punishment must there be, and justice" - so thinks it: "not gratuitously shall he here sing songs in honor of enmity!" Yes, it has revenged itself! And Alas. now will it make my soul also dizzy with revenge!
 
 That I may not turn dizzy, however, bind me fast, my friends, to this pillar! Rather will I be a pillar-saint than a whirl of vengeance!
 
 Truly, no cyclone or whirlwind is Zarathustra: and if he be a dancer, he is not at all a tarantula-dancer! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (8) THE FAMOUS WISE ONES THE people have you served and the people's superstition - not the truth! - all you famous wise ones! And just on that account did they pay you reverence.
 
 And on that account also did they tolerate your unbelief, because it was a pleasantry and a by-path for the people. Thus does the master give free scope to his slaves, and even enjoys their presumptuousness.
 
 But he who is hated by the people, as the wolf by the dogs - is the free spirit, the enemy of fetters, the non-adorer, the dweller in the woods.
 
 To hunt him out of his lair - that was always called "sense of right" by the people: on him do they still hound their sharpest-toothed dogs.
 
 "For there the truth is, where the people are! Woe, woe to the seeking ones!" - thus has it echoed through all time.
 
 Your people would you justify in their reverence: that called you "Will to Truth," you famous wise ones!
 
 83 And your heart has always said to itself: "From the people have I come: from thence came to me also the voice of God.
 
