The wheel of causality does not roll between them.
 
 An idea made this pale man pale. Adequate was he for his deed when he did it, but the idea of it, he could not endure when it was done.
 
 Evermore did he now see himself as the doer of one deed. Madness, I call this: the exception reversed itself to the rule in him.
 
 The streak of chalk bewitches the hen; the stroke he struck bewitched his weak reason. Madness after the deed, I call this.
 
 Listen, you judges! There is another madness besides, and it is before the deed. Ah! you have not gone deep enough into this soul!
 
 Thus speaks the red judge: "Why did this criminal commit murder? He meant to rob." I tell you, however, that his soul wanted blood, not booty: he thirsted for the happiness of the knife!
 
 But his weak reason understood not this madness, and it persuaded him. "What matter about blood!" it said; "wish you not, at least, to make booty thereby? Or take revenge?" And he listened to his weak reason: like lead lay its words upon him thereupon he robbed when he murdered. He did not mean to be ashamed of his madness.
 
 And now once more lies the lead of his guilt upon him, and once more is his weak reason so benumbed, so paralyzed, and so dull.
 
 Could he only shake his head, then would his burden roll off; but who shakes that head?
 
 What is this man? A mass of diseases that reach out into the world through the spirit; there they want to get their prey.
 
 What is this man? A coil of wild serpents that are seldom at peace among themselves - so they go forth apart and seek prey in the world.
 
 Look at that poor body! What it suffered and craved, the poor soul interpreted to itself - it interpreted it as murderous desire, and eagerness for the happiness of the knife.
 
 Him who now turns sick, the evil overtakes which is now the evil: he seeks to cause pain with that which causes him pain. But there have been other ages, and another evil and good.
 
 Once was doubt evil, and the will to Self. Then the invalid became a heretic or sorcerer; as heretic or sorcerer he suffered, and sought to cause suffering.
 
 But this will not enter your ears; it hurts your good people, you tell me.
 
 But what does it matter to me about your good people!
 
 Many things in your good people cause me disgust, and truly, not their 35 evil.
 
