Every time we get in a car instead of walking or running or dancing … every time we cover symptoms with drugs or play it safe with shotgun antibiotic consumption … every time we apply university categories or theories to our local situation instead of waking up to look at it … every time we substitute the fake drama of movies and TV for the drama and play of those close to us … every day we live in those artificial, sterile, controllable, laboratory-like boxes called houses, offices and stores … - … our bodies get a little weaker, a little stupider. Human pretensions of power are an amazingly huge source of laughter. After many generations of this behaviour the human body will become extremely weak and fragile. We will have squandered the 2 billion year strength that our bodies have accumulated without technology. It may be time for life to invent something new.
 
 The greatest power in the universe, truly infinite, is the 'butterfly effect'. Whether you wave your hand towards the right or the left will totally change the faces of every person on earth 500 years from now and into eternity. Here infinite power meets infinite laughter - for this power is infinitely useless.
 
 Is There a Proof of Eternal Recurrence?
 
 Not empirically. There is no outside observer to take and compare notes during the double multiple Graham-years wait until two returns had passed. God, who might volunteer for the job, is too busy trying to prove that he exists.
 
 Nietzsche made a couple of logical attempts at proofs in his notes, but he was never so convinced of them as to publish them.
 
 My "proof" is "experiential". It comes from the sense and feeling of the non-neurotic solidity of existence, of awareness. It is indicated in the following paradox: If death is real, why are we so calm? … . . If death is not real, why are we so nervous?
 
 There is a yin-yang dynamic going on here. The abyss, the personal extinction that would last forever, if it were true, would be too devastating and paralysing psychologically. Yes, death is very real. In a near car accident the adrenaline rush of our body tells us it's very real. But the extinction that our predictive minds first saw 40,000 years ago, is not eternal.
 
 Yes, a very, very, very big number of years, but not eternal. The world as 277 it is now returns.
 
