" - -When the kings thus discoursed and talked eagerly of the happiness of their fathers, there came upon Zarathustra no little desire to mock at their eagerness: for evidently they were very peaceable kings whom he saw before him, kings with old and refined features. But he restrained himself. "Well!" said he, "there leads the way, there lies the cave of Zarathustra; and this day is to have a long evening! At present, however, a cry of distress calls me hastily away from you.
 
 It will honour my cave if kings want to sit and wait in it: but, to be sure, you will have to wait long!
 
 Well! What of that! Where does one at present learn better to wait than at courts? And the whole virtue of kings that has remained to them - is it not called to-day: Ability to wait?" Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 4, (4) THE LEECH AND Zarathustra went thoughtfully on, further and lower down, through forests and past moory bottoms; as it happens, however, to everyone who meditates upon hard matters, he trod thereby unawares upon a man. And behold, there spurted into his face all at once a cry of pain, and two curses and twenty bad invectives, so that in his fright he raised his stick and also struck the trodden one. Immediately afterwards, however, he regained his composure, and his heart laughed at the folly he had just committed.
 
 "Pardon me," said he to the trodden one, who had got up enraged, and had seated himself, "pardon me, and hear first of all a parable.
 
 As a wanderer who dreams of remote things on a lonesome highway, runs unawares against a sleeping dog, a dog which lies in the sun: -As both of them then start up and snap at each other, like deadly enemies, those two beings mortally frightened - so did it happen to us.
 
 And yet! And yet - how little was lacking for them to caress each other, that dog and that lonesome one! Are they not both - lonesome ones!" -"Whoever you art," said the trodden one, still enraged, "you tread also too close to me with your parable, and not only with your foot!
 
 Behold. am I then a dog?" - And thereupon the sitting one got up, and pulled his naked arm out of the swamp. For at first he had lain 192 outstretched on the ground, hidden and indiscernible, like those who lie in wait for swamp-game.
 
