And my soul also is a gushing fountain.
 
 'Tis night: now only do all songs of the loving ones awake. And my soul also is the song of a loving one.
 
 Something unappeased, unappeasable, is within me; it longs to find expression. A craving for love is within me, which speaks itself the language of love.
 
 Light am I: ah, that I were night! But it is my lonesomeness to be girt with light!
 
 Ah, that I were dark and nightly! How would I suck at the breasts of light!
 
 And you yourselves would I bless, you twinkling starlets and glowworms aloft! - and would rejoice in the gifts of your light.
 
 But I live in my own light, I drink again into myself the flames that break forth from me.
 
 I know not the happiness of the receiver; and oft have I dreamt that stealing must be more blessed than receiving.
 
 It is my poverty that my hand never ceases bestowing; it is my envy that I see waiting eyes and the brightened nights of longing.
 
 Oh, the misery of all bestowers! Oh, the darkening of my sun! Oh, the craving to crave! Oh, the violent hunger in satiety!
 
 They take from me: but do I yet touch their soul? There is a gap between giving and receiving; and the smallest gap has finally to be bridged over.
 
 A hunger arises out of my beauty: I should like to injure those I illumine; I should like to rob those I have gifted: - thus do I hunger for wickedness.
 
 Withdrawing my hand when another hand already stretches out to it; hesitating like the cascade, which hesitates even in its leap: - thus do I hunger for wickedness!
 
 Such revenge does my abundance think of such mischief wells out of my lonesomeness.
 
 My happiness in bestowing died in bestowing; my virtue became weary of itself by its abundance!
 
 He who ever bestows is in danger of losing his shame; to him who ever dispenses, the hand and heart become callous by very dispensing.
 
 My eye no longer overflows for the shame of suppliants; my hand has become too hard for the trembling of filled hands.
 
 Whence have gone the tears of my eye, and the down of my heart? Oh, the lonesomeness of all bestowers! Oh, the silence of all shining ones!
 
 86 Many suns circle in desert space: to all that is dark do they speak with their light - but to me they are silent.
 
