" This, however, do all poets believe: that whoever pricks up his ears when lying in the grass or on lonely slopes, learns something of the things that are between heaven and earth.
 
 And if there come to them tender emotions, then do the poets always think that nature herself is in love with them: And that she steals to their ear to whisper secrets into it, and amorous flatteries: of this do they plume and pride themselves, before all mortals!
 
 Ah, there are so many things between heaven and earth of which only the poets have dreamed!
 
 And especially above the heavens: for all gods are poet-symbolisations, poet-sophistications!
 
 Truly, ever are we drawn aloft - that is, to the realm of the clouds: on these do we set our gaudy puppets, and then call them gods and Supermen:Are not they light enough for those chairs! - all these gods and Supermen?Ah, how I am weary of all the inadequate that is insisted on as actual!
 
 Ah, how I am weary of the poets!
 
 When Zarathustra so spoke, his disciple resented it, but was silent.
 
 And Zarathustra also was silent; and his eye directed itself inwardly, as if it gazed into the far distance. At last he sighed and drew breath.I am of today and heretofore, said he thereupon; but something is in me that is of the morrow, and the day following, and the hereafter.
 
 I became weary of the poets, of the old and of the new: superficial are they all to me, and shallow seas.
 
 They did not think sufficiently into the depth; therefore their feeling did not reach to the bottom.
 
 Some sensation of voluptuousness and some sensation of tedium: these have as yet been their best contemplation.
 
 Ghost-breathing and ghost-whisking, seems to me all the jinglejangling of their harps; what have they known thus far of the fervour of tones!They are also not pure enough for me: they all muddle their water that it may seem deep.
 
 And rather would they thereby prove themselves reconcilers: but mediaries and mixers are they to me, and half-and-half, and impure!Ah, I cast indeed my net into their sea, and meant to catch good fish; but always did I draw up the head of some ancient God.
 
 Thus did the sea give a stone to the hungry one. And they themselves 104 may well originate from the sea.
 
