With singing, weeping, laughing, growling and humming do I praise the God who is my God. But what do you bring us as a gift?" When Zarathustra had heard these words, he bowed to the saint and said: "What should I have to give you?! Let me rather hurry away lest I take something away from you!" - And thus they parted from one another, the old man and Zarathustra, just like two laughing boys.
 
 When Zarathustra was alone, however, he said to his heart: "Could it be possible?! This old saint in the forest has not yet heard of it, that God is dead!" Prologue (3) 3 When Zarathustra arrived at the nearest town which is close to the forest, he found many people assembled in the market-place, for it had been announced that a tightrope walker would give a performance. And Zarathustra spoke thus to the people: I teach you the overman. Man is something to be surpassed. What have you done to surpass him?
 
 All beings thus far have created something beyond themselves: and you want to be the ebb of this great tide, and even return to the beast rather than surpass man?
 
 What is the ape to man? A laughing-stock or a painful embarrassment.
 
 And just the same shall man be to the overman: a laughing-stock or a painful embarrassment.
 
 You have made your way from worm to man, and much inside you is still worm. Once you were apes, and still man is more of an ape than any of the apes.
 
 Even the wisest among you is only a conflict and mix of plant and ghost. But do I bid you become ghosts or plants?
 
 Behold, I teach you the overman!
 
 The overman is the meaning of the earth. Let your will say: The overman shall be the meaning of the earth!
 
 I appeal to you, my brothers, remain true to the earth, and do not believe those who speak to you of otherworldly hopes! Poisoners are they, whether they know it or not.
 
 Despisers of life are they, decaying and poisoned themselves, of whom the earth is weary: so let them pass away!
 
 13 Once sin against God was the greatest sin; but God died, and with him these sinners.
 
