I do not wish to conduct it away: it shall learn - to work for me.My wisdom has accumulated long like a cloud, it becomes stiller and darker. So does all wisdom which shall one day bear lightning.to these men of today will I not be light, nor be called light. Them - will I blind: lightning of my wisdom! put out their eyes!
 
 8.
 
 Do not will anything beyond your power: there is a bad falseness in those who will beyond their power.
 
 Especially when they will great things! For they awaken distrust in great things, these subtle false-coiners and stage-players:-Until at last they are false towards themselves, squint-eyed, whited cankers, glossed over with strong words, parade virtues and brilliant false deeds.
 
 Take good care there, you higher men! For nothing is more precious to me, and rarer, than honesty.
 
 Is this today not that of the populace? The populace however knows not what is great and what is small, what is straight and what is honest: it is innocently crooked, it ever lies.
 
 9.
 
 Have a good distrust today you, higher men, you enheartened ones!
 
 you open-hearted ones! And keep your reasons secret! For this today is that of the populace.
 
 What the populace once learned to believe without reasons, who could - refute it to them by means of reasons?
 
 And on the market-place one convinces with gestures. But reasons make the populace distrustful.
 
 And when truth has once triumphed there, then ask yourselves with good distrust: "What strong error has fought for it?" Be on your guard also against the learned! They hate you, because they are unproductive! They have cold, withered eyes before which every bird is unplumed.
 
 Such persons vaunt about not lying: but inability to lie is still far from being love to truth. Be on your guard!
 
 Freedom from fever is still far from being knowledge! Refrigerated spirits I do not believe in. He who cannot lie, does not know what truth is.
 
 10.
 
 If you would go up high, then use your own legs! Do not get yourselves carried aloft; do not seat yourselves on other people's backs 225 and heads!
 
