Why do you disturb them?
 
 Except we be converted and become as cows, we shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. For we ought to learn from them one thing: ruminating.
 
 And truly, although a man should gain the whole world, and yet not learn one thing, ruminating, what would it profit him! He would not be rid of his affliction, -His great affliction: that, however, is at present called disgust. Who has not at present his heart, his mouth and his eyes full of disgust? you also! you also! But behold these cows!"Thus spoke the Preacher-on-the-Mount, and turned then his own look towards Zarathustra - for thus far it had rested lovingly on the cows-: then, however, he put on a different expression. "Who is this with whom I talk?" he exclaimed, frightened, and sprang up from the ground.
 
 "This is the man without disgust, this is Zarathustra himself, the surmounter of the great disgust, this is the eye, this is the mouth, this is the heart of Zarathustra himself." And whilst he thus spoke he kissed with overflowing eyes the hands of him with whom he spoke, and behaved altogether like one to whom a precious gift and jewel has fallen unawares from heaven. The cows, however, gazed at it all and wondered.
 
 "Speak not of me, you strange one; you amiable one!" said Zarathustra, and restrained his affection, "speak to me firstly of yourself! are you not the voluntary beggar who once cast away great riches,-Who was ashamed of his riches and of the rich, and fled to the poorest to bestow upon them his abundance and his heart? But they received him not." "But they received me not," said the voluntary beggar, "you know it, indeed. So I went at last to the animals and to those cows." "Then learned you," interrupted Zarathustra, "how much harder it is to give properly than to take properly, and that bestowing well is an art the last, subtlest master-art of kindness.
 
 "Especially nowadays," answered the voluntary beggar: "at present, that is to say, when everything low has become rebellious and exclusive and haughty in its manner - in the manner of the populace.
 
 For the hour has come, you know it indeed, for the great, evil, long, slow mob-and-slave-insurrection: it extends and extends!
 
 Now does it provoke the lower classes, all benevolence and petty giving; and the overrich may be on their guard!
 
 209 Whoever at present drip, like bulgy bottles out of all-too-small necks: of such bottles at present one willingly breaks the necks.
 
