Only the spiritually conscientious one had not been caught: he at once snatched the harp from the magician and called out: "Air! Let in good air! Let in Zarathustra! you make this cave sultry and poisonous, you bad old magician!
 
 You seduce, you false one, you subtle one, to unknown desires and deserts. And alas, that such as you should talk and make ado about the truth!
 
 Alas, to all free spirits who are not on their guard against such magicians! It is all over with their freedom: you teach and tempt back into prisons,-you old melancholy devil, out of your lament sounds a lurement: you resemble those who with their praise of chastity secretly invite to voluptuousness!
 
 Thus spoke the conscientious one; the old magician, however, looked about him, enjoying his triumph, and on that account put up with the annoyance which the conscientious one caused him. "Be still!" said he with modest voice, "good songs want to re-echo well; after good songs one should be long silent.
 
 Thus do all those present, the higher men. You, however, have perhaps understood but little of my song? In you there is little of the magic spirit.
 
 "you praise me," replied the conscientious one, "in that you separate me from yourself; very well! But, you others, what do I see? you still sit there, all of you, with lusting eyes-: You free spirits, where has your freedom gone! you almost seem to me to resemble those who have long looked at bad girls dancing naked: your souls themselves dance!
 
 In you, you higher men, there must be more of that which the magician calls his evil spirit of magic and deceit: - we must indeed be different.
 
 And truly, we spoke and thought long enough together ere. Zarathustra came home to his cave, for me not to be unaware that we are different.
 
 We seek different things even here aloft, you and I. For I seek more security; on that account have I come to Zarathustra. For he is still the most steadfast tower and will-Today, when everything totters, when all the earth quakes. You, however, when I see what eyes you make, it almost seems to me that you 234 seek more insecurity, -More horror, more danger, more earthquake.
 
