In that you came to me beautiful, veiled in your beauty, in that you spoke to me mutely, obvious in your wisdom: Oh, how could I fail to divine all the modesty of your soul! Before the sun didst you come to me - the lonesomest one.
 
 We have been friends from the beginning: to us are grief, gruesomeness, and ground common; even the sun is common to us.
 
 We do not speak to each other, because we know too much-: we keep silent to each other, we smile our knowledge to each other.
 
 Are you not the light of my fire? have you not the sister-soul of my insight?
 
 Together did we learn everything; together did we learn to ascend beyond ourselves to ourselves, and to smile uncloudedly:-Uncloudedly to smile down out of luminous eyes and out of miles of distance, when under us constraint and purpose and guilt stream like rain.
 
 And wandered I alone, for what did my soul hunger by night and in labyrinthine paths? And climbed I mountains, whom did I ever seek, if not you, upon mountains?
 
 And all my wandering and mountain-climbing: a necessity was it merely, and a makeshift of the unhandy one: - to fly only, wants my entire will, to fly into you!
 
 And what have I hated more than passing clouds, and whatever taints you? And my own hatred have I even hated, because it tainted you!
 
 The passing clouds I detest - those stealthy cats of prey: they take from you and me what is common to us - the vast unbounded Yes - and Amen - saying.
 
 These mediators and mixers we detest - the passing clouds: those halfand-half ones, that have neither learned to bless nor to curse from the heart.
 
 Rather will I sit in a tub under a closed heaven, rather will I sit in the abyss without heaven, than see you, you luminous heaven, tainted with passing clouds!
 
 And oft have I longed to pin them fast with the jagged gold-wires of lightning, that I might, like the thunder, beat the drum upon their kettlebellies:-An angry drummer, because they rob me of your yes and Amen! - you heaven above me, you pure, you luminous heaven! you abyss of light! because they rob you of my yes and Amen.
 
 131 For rather will I have noise and thunders and tempest-blasts, than this discreet, doubting cat-repose; and also among men do I hate most of all the soft-treaders, and half-and-half ones, and the doubting, hesitating, passing clouds.
 
