What has thus far been the greatest sin here on earth? Was it not the word of him who said: "Woe to them that laugh now!" Did he himself find no cause for laughter on the earth? Then he sought badly. A child even finds cause for it.
 
 He - did not love sufficiently: otherwise would he also have loved us, the laughing ones! But he hated and hooted us; wailing and teeth-gnashing did he promise us.
 
 Must one then curse immediately, when one does not love? That seems to me bad taste. Thus did he, however, this absolute one. He sprang from the populace.
 
 And he himself just did not love sufficiently; otherwise would he have raged less because people did not love him. All great love does not seek love: - it seeks more.
 
 Go out of the way of all such absolute ones! They are a poor sickly type, a populace-type: they look at this life with ill-will, they have an evil eye for this earth.
 
 Go out of the way of all such absolute ones! They have heavy feet and sultry hearts: - they do not know how to dance. How could the earth be light to such ones!
 
 17.
 
 Tortuously do all good things come close to their goal. Like cats they curve their backs, they purr inwardly with their approaching happiness, - all good things laugh.
 
 His step betrays whether a person already walks on his own path: just see me walk! He, however, who comes close to his goal, dances.
 
 And truly, a statue have I not become, not yet do I stand there stiff, stupid and stony, like a pillar; I love fast racing.
 
 And though there be on earth fens and dense afflictions, he who has light feet runs even across the mud, and dances, as upon well-swept ice.
 
 Lift up your hearts, my brothers, high, higher! And do not forget your legs! Lift up also your legs, you good dancers, and better still, if you stand upon your heads!
 
 18.
 
 This crown of the laughter, this rose-garland crown: I myself have put on this crown, I myself have consecrated my laughter. No one else have I found to-day potent enough for this.
 
 Zarathustra the dancer, Zarathustra the light one, who beckons with his pinions, one ready for flight, beckoning to all birds, ready and prepared, a blissfully light-spirited one:228 Zarathustra the soothsayer, Zarathustra the sooth-laugher, no impatient one, no absolute one, one who loves leaps and side-leaps; I myself have put on this crown!
 
