For this am I from the heart and from the beginning - drawing, hitherdrawing, upward-drawing, upbringing; a drawer, a trainer, a trainingmaster, who not in vain counselled himself once on a time: "Become what you art!" Thus may men now come up to me; for as yet do I await the signs that it is time for my down-going; as yet do I not myself go down, as I must do, among men.
 
 Therefore do I here wait, crafty and scornful upon high mountains, no impatient one, no patient one; rather one who has even unlearnt patience, - because he no longer "suffers." For my fate gives me time: it has forgotten me perhaps? Or does it sit behind a big stone and catch flies?
 
 And truly, I am well-disposed to my eternal fate, because it does not hound and hurry me, but leaves me time for merriment and mischief; so that I have to-day ascended this high mountain to catch fish.
 
 Did ever anyone catch fish upon high mountains? And though it be a folly what I here seek and do, it is better so than that down below I should become solemn with waiting, and green and yellow-A posturing wrath-snorter with waiting, a holy howl-storm from the mountains, an impatient one that shouts down into the valleys: "Listen, else I will scourge you with the scourge of God!" Not that I would have a grudge against such wrathful ones on that account: they are well enough for laughter to me! Impatient must they now be, those big alarm-drums, which find a voice now or never!
 
 Myself, however, and my fate - we do not talk to the Present, neither do we talk to the Never: for talking we have patience and time and more than time. For one day must it yet come, and may not pass by.
 
 What must one day come and may not pass by? Our great Hazar, that is to say, our great, remote human-kingdom, the Zarathustra-kingdom of a thousand years - How remote may such "remoteness" be? What does it concern me? But on that account it is none the less sure to me-, with both feet stand I secure on this ground; -On an eternal ground, on hard primary rock, on this highest, hardest, 185 primary mountain-ridge, to which all winds come, as to the storm-parting, asking Where?
 
