Did not a child come to me, carrying a mirror?
 
 "O Zarathustra" - said the child to me - "look at yourself in the mirror!" But when I looked into the mirror, I shrieked, and my heart throbbed: for not myself did I see therein, but a devil's grimace and derision.
 
 Truly, all too well do I understand the dream's portent and monition: my doctrine is in danger; tares want to be called wheat!
 
 My enemies have grown powerful and have disfigured the likeness of my doctrine, so that my dearest ones have to blush for the gifts that I gave them.
 
 Lost are my friends; the hour has come for me to seek my lost ones!With these words Zarathustra started up, not however like a person in anguish seeking relief, but rather like a seer and a singer whom the spirit inspires. With amazement did his eagle and serpent gaze upon him: for a coming bliss overspread his countenance like the rosy dawn.
 
 What has happened to me, my animals? - said Zarathustra. Am I not transformed? has not bliss come to me like a whirlwind?
 
 Foolish is my happiness, and foolish things will it speak: it is still too young - so have patience with it!
 
 Wounded am I by my happiness: all sufferers shall be physicians to me!
 
 To my friends can I again go down, and also to my enemies! Zarathustra can again speak and bestow, and show his best love to his loved ones!
 
 My impatient love overflows in streams, - down towards sunrise and sunset. Out of silent mountains and storms of affliction, rushes my soul into the valleys.
 
 Too long have I longed and looked into the distance. Too long has solitude possessed me: thus have I unlearned to keep silence.
 
 Utterance have I become altogether, and the brawling of a brook from high rocks: downward into the valleys will I hurl my speech.
 
 And let the stream of my love sweep into unfrequented channels! How should a stream not finally find its way to the sea!
 
 Indeed, there is a lake in me, sequestered and self-sufficing; but the stream of my love bears this along with it, down - to the sea!
 
 New paths do I tread, a new speech comes to me; tired have I become like all creators - of the old tongues. No longer will my spirit walk on worn-out soles.
 
 Too slowly runs all speaking for me: - into your chariot, O storm, do I 68 leap!
 
