It is time for man to plant the seed of his highest hope.
 
 His soil is still rich enough for it. But that soil will one day be poor and exhausted, and no lofty tree will any longer be able to grow on it.
 
 Alas. There will come a time when man will no longer launch the arrow of his longing beyond man - and the string of his bow will have unlearned to whir!
 
 I say to you: one must still have chaos in oneself to give birth to a dancing star. I say to you: you still have chaos in yourself.
 
 Alas. There will come a time when man can no longer give birth to any star. Alas. There will come the time of the most despicable man, who can no longer despise himself.
 
 Behold. I show you the last man.
 
 "What is love? What is creation? What is longing? What is a star?" - so asks the last man and blinks.
 
 The earth has then become small, and on it there hops the last man who makes everything small. His race is as ineradicable as the flea; the last man lives longest.
 
 "We have invented happiness", say the last men, and they blink.
 
 They have left the regions where it was hard to live; for one needs warmth. One still loves one's neighbor and rubs against him; for one needs warmth.
 
 Becoming ill and being distrustful, they consider sinful: one proceeds carefully. He is a fool who still stumbles over stones or men!
 
 A little poison now and then: that makes pleasant dreams. And much poison in the end, for a pleasant death.
 
 One still works, for work is entertaining. But one is careful lest the entertainment should assault you.
 
 One no longer becomes poor or rich; both are too burdensome. Who still wants to rule? Who still wants to obey? Both are too burdensome.
 
 No shepherd and one herd! Everyone wants the same; everyone is the same: he who feels differently goes voluntarily into the madhouse.
 
 "Formerly all the world was insane", say the most refined, and they blink.
 
 They are clever and know all that has happened: so there is no end to their mockery. People still quarrel, but they are soon reconciled - otherwise it might spoil their digestion.
 
 They have their little pleasures for the day, and their little pleasures for the night, but they have a regard for health.
 
 "We have invented happiness," say the last men, and they blink.
 
 17 And here ended the first discourse of Zarathustra, which is also called "The Prologue", for at this point the shouting and delight of the crowd interrupted him.
 
