And spurious wisdom: so does it call all the wit that slaves, and hoaryheaded and weary ones affect; and especially all the cunning, spuriouswitted, curious-witted foolishness of priests!
 
 The spurious wise, however, all the priests, the world-weary, and those whose souls are of feminine and servile nature - oh, how has their game all along abused selfishness!
 
 And precisely that was to be virtue and was to be called virtue - to abuse selfishness! And "selfless" - so did they wish themselves with good reason, all those world-weary cowards and cross-spiders!
 
 But to all those comes now the day, the change, the sword of judgment, the great noontide: then shall many things be revealed!
 
 And he who proclaims the ego wholesome and holy, and selfishness blessed, truly, he, the prognosticator, speaks also what he knows: "Behold, it comes, it is night, the great noontide!" Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 3, (11) THE SPIRIT OF GRAVITY 1.
 
 MY MOUTHPIECE - is of the people: too coarsely and cordially do I talk for Angora rabbits. And still stranger sounds my word to all ink-fish and pen-foxes.
 
 My hand - is a fool's hand: woe to all tables and walls, and whatever has room for fool's sketching, fool's scrawling!
 
 My foot - is a horse-foot; therewith do I trample and trot over stick and stone, in the fields up and down, and am bedevilled with delight in all fast racing.
 
 My stomach - is surely an eagle's stomach? For it prefers lamb's flesh.
 
 Certainly it is a bird's stomach.
 
 Nourished with innocent things, and with few, ready and impatient to fly, to fly away - that is now my nature: why should there not be something of bird-nature therein!
 
 And especially that I am hostile to the spirit of gravity, that is birdnature: - truly, deadly hostile, supremely hostile, originally hostile! Oh, where has my hostility not flown and misflown!
 
 152 Thereof could I sing a song - - and will sing it: though I be alone in an empty house, and must sing it to my own ears.
 
