) 1.
 
 IF I be a diviner and full of the divining spirit which wanders on high mountain-ridges, between two seas,Wanders between the past and the future as a heavy cloud - hostile to sultry plains, and to all that is weary and can neither die nor live: Ready for lightning in its dark bosom, and for the redeeming flash of light, charged with lightning which say Yes! which laugh Yes! ready for divining flashes of lightning:-Blessed, however, is he who is thus charged! And truly, long must he hang like a heavy tempest on the mountain, who shall one day kindle the light of the future!Oh, how could I not be ardent for Eternity and for the marriage-ring of rings - the ring of the return?
 
 Never yet have I found the woman by whom I should like to have children, unless it be this woman whom I love: for I love you, O Eternity!
 
 For I love you, O Eternity!
 
 2.
 
 If ever my wrath has burst graves, shifted landmarks, or rolled old shattered tables into precipitous depths: If ever my scorn has scattered mouldered words to the winds, and if I have come like a besom to cross-spiders, and as a cleansing wind to old charnel-houses: If ever I have sat rejoicing where old gods lie buried, world-blessing, world-loving, beside the monuments of old world-maligners:-For even churches and gods'-graves do I love, if only heaven looks through their ruined roofs with pure eyes; gladly do I sit like grass and red poppies on ruined churchesOh, how could I not be ardent for Eternity, and for the marriage-ring of rings - the ring of the return?
 
 Never yet have I found the woman by whom I should like to have children, unless it be this woman whom I love: for I love you, O Eternity!
 
 For I love you, O Eternity!
 
 3.
 
 If ever a breath has come to me of the creative breath, and of the heavenly necessity which compels even chances to dance star-dances: If ever I have laughed with the laughter of the creative lightning, to which the long thunder of the deed follows, grumblingly, but obediently: 180 If ever I have played dice with the gods at the divine table of the earth, so that the earth quaked and ruptured, and snorted forth fire-streams:-For a divine table is the earth, and trembling with new active dictums and dice-casts of the gods: Oh, how could I not be ardent for Eternity, and for the marriage-ring of rings - the ring of the return?
 
