The wind plays with heavy fragrance which seeks for you; and all brooks would like to run after you.
 
 All things long for you, since you have remained alone for seven days step forth out of your cave! All things want to be your physicians!
 
 Did perhaps a new knowledge come to you, a bitter, grievous knowledge? Like leavened dough you lay, your soul arose and swelled beyond all its bounds.-" -O my animals, answered Zarathustra, talk on thus and let me listen! It refreshes me so to hear your talk: where there is talk, there is the world as a garden to me.
 
 How charming it is that there are words and tones; are not words and tones rainbows and seeming bridges between the eternally separated?
 
 To each soul belongs another world; to each soul is every other soul a back-world.
 
 Among the most alike does semblance deceive most delightfully: for the smallest gap is most difficult to bridge over.
 
 For me - how could there be an outside-of-me? There is no outside! But this we forget on hearing tones; how delightful it is that we forget!
 
 Have not names and tones been given to things that man may refresh himself with them? It is a beautiful folly, speaking; therewith dances man over everything.
 
 How lovely is all speech and all falsehoods of tones! With tones dances our love on variegated rainbows.-"O Zarathustra," said then his animals, "to those who think like us, things all dance themselves: they come and hold out the hand and laugh and flee - and return.
 
 Everything goes, everything returns; eternally rolls the wheel of existence. Everything dies, everything blossoms forth again; eternally runs on the year of existence.
 
 Everything breaks, everything is integrated anew; eternally builds itself the same house of existence. All things separate, all things again greet one another; eternally true to itself remains the ring of existence.
 
 Every moment begins existence, around every 'Here' rolls the ball 'There.' The middle is everywhere. Crooked is the path of eternity."-O you wags and barrel-organs! answered Zarathustra, and smiled once more, how well do you know what had to be fulfilled in seven days:-And how that monster crept into my throat and choked me! But I bit off its head and spat it away from me.
 
 171 And you - you have made a lyre-lay out of it?
 
