Always more honestly learns it to speak, this I; and the more it learns, the more does it find titles and honors for the body and the earth.
 
 A new pride my I taught me, and that I teach to men: no longer to thrust one's head into the sand of heavenly things, but to carry it freely, a terrestrial head, which creates a meaning for the earth!
 
 A new will I teach to men: to choose that path which man has followed blindly, and to approve of it - and no longer to slink aside from it, like the sick and dying!
 
 The sick and dying - it was they who despised the body and the earth, and invented the heavenly world, and the redeeming drops of blood; but even those sweet and dismal poisons they borrowed from the body and the earth!
 
 From their misery they sought escape, and the stars were too far for them. Then they sighed: "Would that there were heavenly paths by which to sneak into another existence and into happiness!" Then they contrived for themselves their secret ways and bloody potions!
 
 Beyond the sphere of their body and this earth they now fancied themselves transported, these ungrateful ones. But to what did they owe the convulsion and rapture of their transport? To their bodies and this earth.
 
 Gentle is Zarathustra to the sickly. Truly, he is not angry at their ways of consolation and ingratitude. May they become convalescents and overcomers, and create higher bodies for themselves!
 
 Neither is Zarathustra angry at a convalescent who looks tenderly on his delusions, and at midnight sneaks round the grave of his God; but even his tears indicate to me sickness and a sick body.
 
 Many sickly ones have there always been among those who invent fables and long for God; violently they hate the discerning ones, and that youngest of virtues, which is called "honesty".
 
 They always gaze backward toward dark ages: then, indeed, were delusion and faith something different: the delirium of reason was likeness to God, and doubt was sin.
 
 Too well do I know those godlike men: they insist on being believed in, and that doubt is sin. Too well, also, do I know what they themselves most believe in.
 
 Truly, not in afterworlds and redemptive drops of blood, but in the body do they also believe most; and their own body is for them the thing-in-itself.
 
 But it is a sickly thing to them, and gladly would they get out of their 30 skin.
 
