And truly, I love you, because you know not today how to live, you higher men! For thus do you live - best!
 
 4.
 
 Have you courage, O my brothers? Are you stout-hearted? Not the courage before witnesses, but hermit and eagle courage, which not even a God any longer beholds?
 
 Cold souls, mules, the blind and the drunken, I do not call stouthearted. He has heart who knows fear, but vanquishes it; who sees the abyss, but with pride.
 
 He who sees the abyss, but with eagle's eyes, - he who with eagle's talons grasps the abyss: he has courage. - 5.
 
 "Man is evil" - so said to me for consolation, all the wisest ones. Ah, if only it be still true today! For the evil is man's best force.
 
 "Man must become better and eviler" - so do I teach. The evilest is necessary for the overman's best.
 
 It may have been well for the preacher of the petty people to suffer and be burdened by men's sin. I, however, rejoice in great sin as my great consolation.Such things, however, are not said for long ears. Every word, also, is not suited for every mouth. These are fine far-away things: at them sheep's claws shall not grasp!
 
 6.
 
 You higher men, think you that I am here to put right what you have put wrong?
 
 Or that I wished henceforth to make snugger couches for you sufferers? Or show you restless, miswandering, misclimbing ones, new and easier footpaths?
 
 No! No! Three times No! Always more, always better ones of your type shall succumb, - for you shall always have it worse and harder. Thus only-Thus only grows man aloft to the height where the lightning strikes and shatters him: high enough for the lightning!
 
 Towards the few, the long, the remote go forth my soul and my seeking: of what account to me are your many little, short miseries!
 
 You do not yet suffer enough for me! For you suffer from yourselves, you have not yet suffered from man. you would lie if you spoke otherwise! None of you suffers from what I have suffered. - 7.
 
 224 It is not enough for me that the lightning no longer does harm.
 
