"Behold. you venerable one," said he then, "what a fine and long hand!
 
 That is the hand of one who has ever dispensed blessings. Now, however, does it hold fast him whom you seek, me, Zarathustra.
 
 It is I, the ungodly Zarathustra, who says: 'Who is ungodlier than I, that I may enjoy his teaching?'"Thus spoke Zarathustra, and penetrated with his glances the thoughts and arrear-thoughts of the old pope. At last the latter began: "He who most loved and possessed him has now also lost him most-: -Behold, I myself am surely the most godless of us at present? But who could rejoice at that!"-"you served him to the last?" asked Zarathustra thoughtfully, after a deep silence, "you know how he died? Is it true what they say, that sympathy choked him; -That he saw how man hung on the cross, and could not endure it; that his love to man became his hell, and at last his death?" - The old pope however did not answer, but looked aside timidly, with a painful and gloomy expression.
 
 "Let him go," said Zarathustra, after prolonged meditation, still looking the old man straight in the eye.
 
 "Let him go, he is gone. And though it honours you that you speak only in praise of this dead one, yet you know as well as I who he was, and that he went curious ways." "To speak before three eyes," said the old pope cheerfully (he was blind of one eye), "in divine matters I am more enlightened than Zarathustra himself - and may well be so.
 
 My love served him long years, my will followed all his will. A good servant, however, knows everything, and many a thing even which a master hides from himself.
 
 He was a hidden God, full of secrecy. Truly, he did not come by his son otherwise than by secret ways. At the door of his faith stands adultery.
 
 Whoever extols him as a God of love, does not think highly enough of love itself. Did not that God want also to be judge? But the loving one loves irrespective of reward and requital.
 
 When he was young, that God out of the Orient, then was he harsh and revengeful, and built himself a hell for the delight of his favourites.
 
 At last, however, he became old and soft and mellow and pitiful, more like a grandfather than a father, but most like a tottering old grandmother.
 
 There did he sit shrivelled in his chimney-corner, fretting on account of 202 his weak legs, world-weary, will-weary, and one day he suffocated of his all-too-great pity.
 
