Truly, nothing sick or diseased is there in such longing and descending!
 
 That the lonesome height may not forever remain lonesome and selfsufficing; that the mountains may come to the valleys and the winds of the heights to the plains:Oh, who could find the right prename and honouring name for such longing! "Bestowing virtue" - thus did Zarathustra. once name the unnamable.
 
 And then it happened also, - and truly, it happened for the first time! that his word blessed selfishness, the wholesome, healthy selfishness, that springs from the powerful soul:-From the powerful soul, to which the high body appertains, the handsome, triumphing, refreshing body, around which everything becomes a mirror: -The pliant, persuasive body, the dancer, whose symbol and epitome is the self-enjoying soul. Of such bodies and souls the self-enjoyment calls itself "virtue." With its words of good and bad does such self-enjoyment shelter itself as with sacred groves; with the names of its happiness does it banish from itself everything contemptible.
 
 Away from itself does it banish everything cowardly; it says: "Bad that is cowardly!" Contemptible seem to it the ever-solicitous, the sighing, the complaining, and whoever pick up the most trifling advantage.
 
 It despises also all bitter-sweet wisdom: for truly, there is also wisdom that blooms in the dark, a night-shade wisdom, which ever sighs: "All is vain!" Shy distrust is regarded by it as base, and everyone who wants oaths instead of looks and hands: also all over-distrustful wisdom, - for such is the mode of cowardly souls.
 
 Baser still it regards the obsequious, doggish one, who immediately lies on his back, the submissive one; and there is also wisdom that is submissive, and doggish, and pious, and obsequious.
 
 Hateful to it altogether, and a loathing, is he who will never defend himself, he who swallows down poisonous spittle and bad looks, the alltoo-patient one, the all-endurer, the all-satisfied one: for that is the mode of slaves.
 
 Whether they be servile before gods and divine spurnings, or before men and stupid human opinions: at all kinds of slaves does it spit, this blessed selfishness!
 
 Bad: thus does it call all that is spirit-broken, and sordidly-servile 151 constrained, blinking eyes, depressed hearts, and the false submissive style, which kisses with broad cowardly lips.
 
