Eat and drink also with me to-day, and forgive it that a cheerful old man sits with you at table!" - "A cheerful old man?" answered the soothsayer, shaking his head, "but whoever you art, or would be, O Zarathustra, you have been here aloft the longest time, - in a little while your bark shall no longer rest on dry land!" - "Do I then rest on dry land?" - asked Zarathustra, laughing. - "The waves around your mountain," answered the soothsayer, "rise and rise, the waves of great distress and affliction: they will soon raise your bark also and carry you away." - Thereupon was Zarathustra silent and wondered. - "Do you still hear nothing?" continued the soothsayer: "does it not rush and roar out of the depth?" Zarathustra was silent once more and listened: then heard he a long, long cry, which the abysses threw to one another and passed on; for none of them wished to retain it: so evil did it sound.
 
 "you ill announcer," said Zarathustra at last, "that is a cry of distress, and the cry of a man; it may come perhaps out of a black sea. But what does human distress matter to me! My last sin which has been reserved for me, - know you what it is called?" -"Pity!" answered the soothsayer from an overflowing heart, and raised both his hands aloft - "O Zarathustra, I have come that I may seduce you to your last sin!"And hardly had those words been uttered when there sounded the cry once more, and longer and more alarming than before - also much nearer. "You hear? You hear, O Zarathustra?" called out the soothsayer, "the cry concerns you, it calls you: Come, come, come; it is time, it is the highest time!"Zarathustra was silent thereupon, confused and staggered; at last he asked, like one who hesitates in himself: "And who is it that there calls me?" "But you know it, certainly," answered the soothsayer warmly, "why do you conceal yourself? It is the higher man that cries for you!" "The higher man?" cried Zarathustra, horror-stricken: "what wants he?
 
 What wants he? The higher man! What wants he here?" - and his skin covered with perspiration.
 
 The soothsayer, however, did not heed Zarathustra's alarm, but listened and listened in the downward direction. When, however, it had been still there for a long while, he looked behind, and saw Zarathustra standing trembling.
 
 "O Zarathustra," he began, with sorrowful voice, "you do not stand there like one whose happiness makes him giddy: you will have to dance 187 lest you tumble down!
 
