Because I have already counselled you? But know that it is I, the ugliest man, -Who have also the largest, heaviest feet. Where I have gone, the way is bad. I tread all paths to death and destruction.
 
 But that you passed me by in silence, that you blushed - I saw it well: thereby did I know you as Zarathustra.
 
 Every one else would have thrown to me his alms, his pity, in look and speech. But for that - I am not beggar enough: that didst you divine.
 
 For that I am too rich, rich in what is great, frightful, ugliest, most unutterable! your shame, O Zarathustra, honoured me!
 
 With difficulty did I get out of the crowd of the pitiful, - that I might find the only one who at present teaches that 'pity is obtrusive' - yourself, O Zarathustra!
 
 -Whether it be the pity of a God, or whether it be human pity, it is offensive to modesty. And unwillingness to help may be nobler than the virtue that rushes to do so.
 
 That however - namely, pity - is called virtue itself at present by all petty people: - they have no reverence for great misfortune, great ugliness, great failure.
 
 Beyond all these do I look, as a dog looks over the backs of thronging flocks of sheep. They are petty, good-wooled, good-willed, grey people.
 
 As the heron looks contemptuously at shallow pools, with backwardbent head, so do I look at the throng of grey little waves and wills and souls.
 
 Too long have we acknowledged them to be right, those petty people: so we have at last given them power as well; - and now do they teach that 'good is only what petty people call good.' And 'truth' is at present what the preacher spoke who himself sprang from them, that singular saint and advocate of the petty people, who testified of himself: 'I - am the truth.' That immodest one has long made the petty people greatly puffed up, he who taught no small error when he taught: 'I - am the truth.' has an immodest one ever been answered more courteously? - You, however, O Zarathustra, passed him by, and said: 'No! No! Three times No!' You warned against his error; you warned - the first to do so - against pity: - not every one, not none, but yourself and your type.
 
 You are ashamed of the shame of the great sufferer; and truly when you say: 'From pity there comes a heavy cloud; take heed, you men!' 206 -When you teach: 'All creators are hard, all great love is beyond their pity:' O Zarathustra, how well versed do you seem to me in weathersigns!
 
