He whose fathers were inclined for women, and for strong wine and flesh of wildboar swine; what would it be if he demanded chastity of himself?
 
 A folly would it be! Much, truly, does it seem to me for such a one, if he should be the husband of one or of two or of three women.
 
 And if he founded monasteries, and inscribed over their portals: "The way to holiness," - I should still say: What good is it! it is a new folly!
 
 He has founded for himself a penance-house and refuge-house: much good may it do! But I do not believe in it.
 
 In solitude there grows what anyone brings into it - also the brute in one's nature. Thus is solitude inadvisable to many.
 
 has there ever been anything filthier on earth than the saints of the wilderness? Around them was not only the devil loose - but also the swine.
 
 14.
 
 Shy, ashamed, awkward, like the tiger whose spring has failed - thus, you higher men, have I often seen you slink aside. A cast which you made had failed.
 
 But what does it matter, you dice-players! you had not learned to play and mock, as one must play and mock! Do we not ever sit at a great table of mocking and playing?
 
 And if great things have been a failure with you, have you yourselves therefore - been a failure? And if you yourselves have been a failure, has man therefore - been a failure? If man, however, has been a failure: well then! never mind!
 
 15.
 
 The higher its type, always the seldomer does a thing succeed. you higher men here, have you not all - been failures?
 
 Be of good cheer; what does it matter? How much is still possible!
 
 Learn to laugh at yourselves, as you ought to laugh!
 
 What wonder even that you have failed and only half-succeeded, you half-shattered ones! does not - man's future strive and struggle in you?
 
 Man's furthest, profoundest, star-highest issues, his prodigious powers - do not all these foam through one another in your vessel?
 
 What wonder that many a vessel shatters! Learn to laugh at yourselves, as you ought to laugh! you higher men, Oh, how much is still possible!
 
 And truly, how much has already succeeded! How rich is this earth in small, good, perfect things, in well-constituted things!
 
 Set around you small, good, perfect things, you higher men. Their golden maturity heals the heart. The perfect teaches one to hope.
 
 227 16.
 
