renewing of your mind.”621 This will not now be “after their kind,” as if we were following the neighbor who went before us, or as if we were living after the example of a better man—for thou didst not say, “Let man be made after his kind,” but rather, “Let us make man in our own image and our own likeness,”622 so that then we may be able to prove what thy will is.
 
 This is why thy minister—begetting children by the gospel so that he might not always have them babes whom he would have to feed with milk and nurse as children—this is why he said, “Be transformed by the renewing of your minds, that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.”623 Therefore thou didst not say, “Let man be made,” but rather, “Let us make man.” And thou didst not say, “After his kind,” but after “our image” and “likeness.” Indeed, it is only when man has been renewed in his mind, and comes to behold and apprehend thy truth, that he does not need another man as his director, to show him how to imitate human examples. Instead, by thy guidance, he proves what is thy good and acceptable and perfect will. And thou dost teach him, now that he is able to understand, to see the trinity of the Unity and the unity of the Trinity.
 
 This is why the statement in the plural, “Let us make man,” is also connected with the statement in the singular, “And God made man.” Thus it is said in the plural, “After our likeness,” and then in the singular, “After the image of God.” Man is thus transformed in the knowledge of God, according to the image of Him who created him. And now, having been made spiritual, he judges all things—that is, all things that are appropriate to be judged—and he himself is judged of no man.624 CHAPTER XXIII 33. Now this phrase, “he judges all things,” means that man has dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over all cattle and wild beasts, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And he does this by the power of reason in his mind by which he perceives “the things of the Spirit of God.”625 But, when man was put in this high office, he did not understand what was involved and thus was reduced to the level of the brute beasts, and made like them.626 Therefore in thy Church, O our God, by the grace thou hast given us—since we are thy workmanship, created in good works (not only those who are in spiritual authority but also those who are spiritually subject to them)—thou madest man male and female. Here all are equal in thy spiritual grace where, as far as sex is concerned, there is neither male nor female, just as there is neither Jew nor Greek, nor bond nor free. Spiritual men, therefore, whether those who are in authority or those who are subject to authority, judge spiritually. They do not judge by the light of that spiritual knowledge which shines in the firmament, for it is inappropriate for them to judge by so sublime an authority. Nor does it behoove them to judge concerning thy Book itself, although there are some things in it which are not clear.
 
 Instead, we submit our understanding to it and believe with certainty that what is hidden from our sight is still rightly and truly spoken. In this way, even though a man is now spiritual and renewed by the knowledge of God according to the image 621Rom. 12:2.
 
 622Gen. 1:26.
 
 623Rom. 12:2 (mixed text).
 
 624Cf. 1 Cor. 2:15.
 
 6251 Cor. 2:14.
 
 626Cf. Ps. 49:20.
 
