being by thee, until they are recalled to thy unity and receive form and being from thee, the one sovereign Good. What have they deserved of thee, since they would not even be unformed entities except from thee?
 
 3. What has corporeal matter deserved of thee—even in its invisible and unformed state—since it would not exist even in this state if thou hadst not made it?
 
 And, if it did not exist, it could not merit its existence from thee.
 
 Or, what has that formless spiritual creation deserved of thee—that it should flow lightlessly like the abyss—since it is so unlike thee and would not exist at all if it had not been turned by the Word which made it that same Word, and, illumined by that Word, had been “made light”507 although not as thy equal but only as an image of that Form [of Light] which is equal to thee? For, in the case of a body, its being is not the same thing as its being beautiful; else it could not then be a deformed body. Likewise, in the case of a created spirit, living is not the same state as living wisely; else it could then be immutably wise. But the true good of every created thing is always to cleave fast to thee, lest, in turning away from thee, it lose the light it had received in being turned by thee, and so relapse into a life like that of the dark abyss.
 
 As for ourselves, who are a spiritual creation by virtue of our souls, when we turned away from thee, O Light, we were in that former life of darkness; and we toil amid the shadows of our darkness until—through thy only Son—we become thy righteousness,508 like the mountains of God. For we, like the great abyss,509 have been the objects of thy judgments.
 
 CHAPTER III 4. Now what thou saidst in the beginning of the creation—“Let there be light: and there was light”—I interpret, not unfitly, as referring to the spiritual creation, because it already had a kind of life which thou couldst illuminate. But, since it had not merited from thee that it should be a life capable of enlightenment, so neither, when it already began to exist, did it merit from thee that it should be enlightened.
 
 For neither could its formlessness please thee until it became light—and it became light, not from the bare fact of existing, but by the act of turning its face to the light which enlightened it, and by cleaving to it. Thus it owed the fact that it lived, and lived happily, to nothing whatsoever but thy grace, since it had been turned, by a change for the better, toward that which cannot be changed for either better or worse. Thou alone art, because thou alone art without complication. For thee it is not one thing to live and another thing to live in blessedness; for thou art thyself thy own blessedness.
 
 CHAPTER IV 5. What, therefore, would there have been lacking in thy good, which thou thyself art, even if these things had never been made or had remained unformed?
 
 Thou didst not create them out of any lack but out of the plenitude of thy goodness, 507Cf. Enneads, I, 2:4: "What the soul now sees, it certainly always possessed, but as lying in the darkness. . . . To dispel the darkness and thus come to knowledge of its inner content, it must thrust toward the light." Compare the notions of the initiative of such movements in the soul in Plotinus and Augustine.
 
 508Cf. 2 Cor. 5:21.
 
 509Cf. Ps. 36:6 and see also Augustine's Exposition on the Psalms, XXXVI, 8, where he says that "the great preachers [receivers of God's illumination] are the mountains of God," for they first catch the light on their summits. The abyss he called "the depth of sin" into which the evil and unfaithful fall.
 
