firmament.584 Let us break our bread with the hungry, let us bring the shelterless poor to our house; let us clothe the naked, and never despise those of our own flesh.585 See from the fruits which spring forth from the earth how good it is. Thus let our temporal light break forth, and let us from even this lower level of fruitful action come to the joy of contemplation and hold on high the Word of Life. And let us at length appear like “lights in the world,”586 cleaving to the firmament of thy Scripture.
 
 For in it thou makest it plain to us how we may distinguish between things intelligible and things tangible, as if between the day and the night—and to distinguish between souls who give themselves to things of the mind and others absorbed in things of sense. Thus it is that now thou art not alone in the secret of thy judgment as thou wast before the firmament was made, and before thou didst divide between the light and the darkness. But now also thy spiritual children, placed and ranked in this same firmament—thy grace being thus manifest throughout the world—may shed light upon the earth, and may divide between the day and night, and may be for the signs of the times587; because old things have passed away, and, lo, all things are become new588; and because our salvation is nearer than when we believed; and because “the night is far spent and the day is at hand”589; and because “thou crownest the year with blessing,”590 sending the laborers into thy harvest, in which others have labored in the sowing and sending laborers also to make new sowings whose harvest shall not be until the end of time.
 
 Thus thou dost grant the prayers of him who seeks, and thou dost bless the years of the righteous man. But thou art always the Selfsame, and in thy years which fail not thou preparest a granary for our transient years. For by an eternal design thou spreadest the heavenly blessings on the earth in their proper seasons.
 
 23. For “to one there is given by thy Spirit the word of wisdom”591 (which resembles the greater light—which is for those whose delight is in the clear light of truth—as the light which is given for the ruling of the day592). But to another the word of knowledge is given by the same Spirit (as it were, the “lesser light”); to another, faith; to another, the gift of healing; to another, the power of working miracles; to another, the gift of prophecy; to another, the discerning of spirits; to another, other kinds of tongues—and all these gifts may be compared to “the stars.” For in them all the one and selfsame Spirit is at work, dividing to every man his own portion, as He wills, and making stars to appear in their bright splendor for the profit of souls. But the word of knowledge, scientia, in which is contained all the mysteries593 which change in their seasons like the moon; and all the other promises of gifts, which when counted are like the stars—all of these fall short of 584Cf. Gen. 1:14.
 
 585Cf. Isa. 58:7.
 
 586Cf. Phil. 2:15.
 
 587Cf. Gen. 1:19.
 
 588Cf. 2 Cor. 5:17.
 
 589Cf. Rom. 13:11, 12.
 
 590Ps. 65:11.
 
 591For this whole passage, cf. the parallel developed here with 1 Cor. 12:7-11.
 
 592In principio diei, an obvious echo to the Vulgate ut praesset diei of Gen. 1:16. Cf. Gibb and Montgomery, p. 424 (see Bibl.), for a comment on in principio diei and in principio noctis, below.
 
 593Sacramenta; but cf. Augustine's discussion of sacramenta in the Old Testament in the Exposition of the Psalms, LXXIV, 2: "The sacraments of the Old Testament promised a Saviour; the sacraments of the New Testament give salvation." that splendor of Wisdom in which the day rejoices and are only for the ruling of the night.
 
