Many of the larger cities rose up against the local nobles who had needed the emperor’s backing to keep Auxiliaries, combined forces and control of them; the Church supported the rebels to increase citizen armies its own political influence. In many other towns private citizenstookoverasrulers.Theresultwasthatwithmuchof Italy now controlled by the Church and republics, which is to say by people who had no experience of war, leaders begantohiremenfromoutside.Thefirstsuccessfulmercenary commander was Alberigo da Conio from Romagna. With Auxiliary armies – that is, when you ask a powerful ruler to what they learned from him, Braccio da Montone and sendmilitaryhelptodefendyourtown–arelikewiseuseless.
 
 FrancescoSforzaandotherswouldbecomearbitersofItaly’s InrecenttimeswehavetheexampleofPopeJuliusduringhis destiny.Afterthemcamealltheothermercenarycommanders Ferraracampaign:havingseenwhatasadlothismercenaries downtoourowntimes.Andtheendresultofalltheirgenius wereinbattle,hereachedanagreementwithFerdinand,King isthatItalywasoverrunbyCharles,ransackedbyLouis,torn of Spain, to have his forces come to help. Auxiliaries may be apart by Ferdinand and humiliated by the Swiss. efficient and useful when it comes to achieving their own The mercenaries’ first tactic was to increase their own ends,buttheyarealmostalwayscounterproductiveforthose importancebyplayingdowntheimportanceofinfantry.Hav- who invite them in, because if they lose, you lose too, and if ingnoterritoryoftheirownandlivingonwhattheygotfrom they win, you are at their mercy.
 
 fighting, they couldn’t feed large numbers of infantry, while Although ancient history is full of pertinent examples, I’d smaller numbers weren’t sufficiently impressive; so they con- liketosticktothisrecentcaseofPopeJuliusII,whosedecision centrated on cavalry and were fed and respected with more to put himself entirely in a foreign army’s hands merely to manageable numbers. Things reached the point where an take Ferrara could hardly have been more rash. But he was armyof20,000wouldhavefewerthan2,000infantry.Aside lucky and the unlikely outcome of the campaign spared him from this the mercenaries did everything possible to avoid the possible consequences of his mistake: when his Spanish hard work and danger; they wouldn’t kill each other in auxiliaries were beaten at Ravenna, the Swiss turned up and combat but took prisoners, then didn’t even ask for a ran- against all expectations – the pope’s included – routed the som. They wouldn’t attack fortifications at night; and they hitherto victorious French, so that Julius escaped being a wouldn’t leave their own fortifications to attack a besieging prisoner either to his enemies, who had fled, or to his auxilarmy’scamp.Theydidn’tdigditchesorbuildstockadesround iaries, who weren’t the ones to win the day for him. The their camps; in winter they didn’t camp out at all. All these Florentines, who had no armed forces at all, took 10,000 omissions becameaccepted practice forthe simplereason, as FrenchauxiliariestolaysiegetoPisa,adecisionthatputthem I said, that they wanted to steer clear of danger and hard ingreaterdangerthananytheyhadexperiencedintheirwhole work. Thus they brought Italy to slavery and humiliation. troubled history. To fight his neighbours, the emperor of 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 53 28/05/2015 14:14 54 the prince auxiliaries, combined forces and citizen armies 55 Constantinoplebrought10,000TurksintoGreeceandwhen explained, of the Syracusan armies, Hiero soon realized that the war was over they wouldn’t leave, which was how the the mercenaries among them were no good, led as they were infidels began to get control of Greece.
 
