In our own 16 times the only leaders we’ve seen doing great things were all reckoned mean. The others were failures. Pope Julius II Generosity and meanness exploitedhisreputationforgenerositytogetthepapacy,then gladlyletitgotofinancehiswars.ThepresentKingofFrance has fought many wars without resorting to new taxes, somethinghecandobecausehisconstantcost-cuttinghasprovided for the extra expenditure. The present King of Spain would not have won all the wars he has if he had had a reputation for generosity.
 
 If we take the first of the qualities listed above, we can say So,ifasaresulthehastheresourcestodefendhiscountry, that it would be nice to be seen as generous. All the same, isn’t obliged to steal from his subjects or prey on others, and being generous just to be seen to be so will damage you. is in no danger of falling into poverty, a ruler need hardly Generosity practised out of real good will, as it should be, worryaboutareputationformeanness;itisoneofthenegarisks passing unnoticed and you won’t escape a reputation tivequalitiesthatkeephiminpower.Andifsomeoneprotests: for meanness. Hence, if you’re determined to have people But it was generosity that won Caesar the empire and many think of you as generous, you’ll have to be lavish in every others have risen to the highest positions because they were possible way; naturally, a ruler who follows this policy will and were seen to be generous, my response is: A ruler in soon use up all his wealth to the point that, if he wants to powerandamanseekingpoweraretwodifferentthings.For keepuphisreputation,he’llhavetoimposespecialtaxesand the ruler already in power generosity is dangerous; for the do everything a ruler can to raise cash. His people will start manseekingpoweritisessential.Caesarwasoneofanumber tohatehimandnoonewillrespecthimnowhehasnomoney. ofmen whowantedtobecome emperorofRome;but ifhe’d Sincehisgenerositywillhavedamagedthemajorityandbene- survived as emperor and gone on spending in the same way, fitedonlyafew,he’llbevulnerabletothefirstbadnews,and hewouldhavedestroyedtheempire.Andifsomeonewereto the first real danger may well topple him. When he realizes object: Many rulers who scored great military victories were thisandtriestochangehisways,he’llimmediatelybeaccused considered extremely generous, I’d reply: Either a ruler is of meanness. spendinghisownandhissubjects’money,orsomeoneelse’s.
 
 Sincearulercan’tbegenerousandshowitwithoutputting Whenthemoneyishisownorhissubjects’,heshouldgoeasy; himself at risk, if he’s sensible he won’t mind getting a repu- whenit’ssomeoneelse’s,heshouldbeaslavishashecan.
 
 tation for meanness. With time, when people see that his A ruler leading his armies and living on plunder, pillage penny-pinchingmeanshedoesn’tneedtoraisetaxesandcan and extortion is using other people’s money and had better defend the country against attack and embark on campaigns be generous with it, otherwise his soldiers won’t follow him.
 
 without putting a burden on his people, he’ll increasingly be What’s not your own or your subjects’ can be given away seen as generous – generous to those he takes nothing from, freely:Cyrusdidthis;sodidCaesarandAlexander.Spending whichistosayalmosteverybody,andmeantothosewhoget other people’s money doesn’t lower your standing – it raises 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 62 28/05/2015 14:14 generosity and meanness 63 nothing from him, which is to say very few.
 
