they have to impose a new administrative system and new And though we can hardly say much about Moses, since he procedures. Here we have to bear in mind that nothing is merely carried out God’s orders, all the same we have to harder to organize, more likely to fail, or more dangerous admire him for the grace that made him worthy of God’s to see through, than the introduction of a new system of attention. But let’s look at Cyrus and other men who won government. The person bringing in the changes will make andfoundedkingdoms.We’llfindtheyarealladmirableand enemiesofeveryonewhowasdoingwellundertheoldsystem, when we look into the specific actions each took and the while the people who stand to gain from the new arrangeinstitutions they established, we’ll see they don’t differ that ments will not offer wholehearted support, partly because muchfromwhatMosesdidunderdivineguidance.Analysing theyareafraidoftheiropponents,whostillhavethelawson theirlivesandachievements,wenoticethattheonlypartluck their side, and partly because people are naturally sceptical: played was in giving them an initial opportunity: they were noonereallybelievesinchangeuntilthey’vehadsolidexperigrantedtherawmaterialandhadthechancetomoulditinto enceof it.So assoonas theopponents ofthenew systemsee whatever shape they wanted. Without this opportunity their a chance, they’ll go on the offensive with the determination talent would have gone unused, and without their talent the of an embattled faction, while its supporters will offer only opportunity would have gone begging. half-heartedresistance,somethingthatwillputthenewruler’s So, if Moses hadn’t found the people of Israel in Egypt, position at risk too.
 
 enslaved and oppressed and in need of a leader to get them Togetabettergraspoftheproblem,wehavetoask:isthe out of the situation, they would never have been willing to leader introducing the changes relying on his own resources, follow him. If Romulus hadn’t been abandoned at birth and ordoes hedependonother people’ssupport;thatis, doeshe chosentoleaveAlbaLonga,howcouldhehavebecomeking havetobeghelptoachievehisgoals,orcanheimposethem?
 
 and founder of Rome? If Cyrus hadn’t found the Persians If he’s begging help, he’s bound to fail and will get nowhere.
 
 ready to rebel against the occupation of the Medes, and the But if he’s got his own resources and can impose his plans, Medes undisciplined and effeminate after a long period of then it’s unlikely he’ll be running serious risks. This is why peace, he couldn’t have achieved what he did. And Theseus thevisionarywhohasarmedforceonhissidehasalwayswon couldhardlyhaveshownhisqualitiesiftheAthenianshadn’t through,whileunarmedevenyourvisionaryisalwaysaloser.
 
 first been defeated and dispersed. These opportunities made Becauseontopofeverythingelse,wemustrememberthatthe these men’s fortunes and it was because of their remarkable generalpublic’smoodwillswing.It’seasytoconvincepeople qualitiesthattheywereabletorecognizeandgrasptheoppor- ofsomething,buthardtokeepthemconvinced.Sowhenthey tunities,bringinggloryandevengreatergoodfortunetotheir stopbelievinginyou,youmustbeinapositiontoforcethem countries. to believe.
 
 These men and others like them who rise to sovereignty Moses, Cyrus, Theseus and Romulus couldn’t have got through their own abilities face all kinds of difficulties when people to respect their new laws for long if they hadn’t possetting up their states but then hold on to them fairly easily. sessedarmedforce.Wesawwhathappenedinourowntimes 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 23 28/05/2015 14:14 24 the prince to Girolamo Savonarola: he was overthrown along with all 7 hisreformswhenpeoplestoppedbelievinginhim.
 
