But he didn’t last long. Two things mercy of its army and again the sultan has to satisfy the led to his being both hated and despised. First, his extremely soldiers before worrying about the people. It’s worth noting lowlybackground:hehadbeenashepherdinThrace–every- that Egypt is a unique case; it is similar to the papal state, bodyknewitandthoughtitscandalous;second,onbecoming which can’t be classified as a hereditary monarchy or as a emperorhehadputoffgoingtoRomefortheformalinvesti- newmonarchy.Whentheoldrulerdiesheisnotreplacedby ture and got himself a reputation for extreme cruelty by one of his children, but a new leader is elected by a body ordering his prefects in Rome and all over the empire to vested with this authority. Since the state’s institutions are carry out numerous atrocities. Universally despised for his wellestablished,thiscanhardlybecomparedwithasituation lowbirth,hatedandfearedforhisferocity,hefacedrebellions whereanewrulerseizesastate,andinfactapopeorEgyptian first in Africa, then in the Senate; the Senate rebellion was sultan faces none of the difficulties that a new ruler usually supportedbytheentirepopulationofRome.Thenthewhole faces, because although he may be new to power the instiofItaly conspiredagainst him,untilfinally hisown armygot tutionsareoldandsetuptoworkonhisbehalfasifhewere involved; they were laying siege to Aquileia and finding it a hereditary king.
 
 toughgoing;theywerealsofedupwithhiscrueltyandwhen But let’s get back to our discussion. I’m sure that anyone they realized how many enemies he had they became less reflecting on what I’ve said will see that it was hatred or afraid of the man and killed him. contempt that led to the downfall of these Roman emperors; I don’t want to talk about Heliogabalus, Macrinus or theywillalsounderstandhowitwasthat,whilesomebehaved Julian,whowereallintenselydespisedandswiftlydispatched. onewayandsomeanother,therewereneverthelesssuccesses Instead I’ll conclude this discussion with the reflection that andfailuresinbothgroups.Sincetheyhadseizedratherthan contemporary rulers do not have to give the same priority to inherited power, it was futile and dangerous for Pertinax satisfying the army that the Roman emperors did. True, one and Alexander to try to imitate Marcus Aurelius, who had doeshavetopaythearmysomeattention,buttheproblemis inherited his position; similarly, since they didn’t have the soon resolved, because none of today’s rulers has to live necessaryqualities,itwasafatalmistakeforCaracalla,Comwitharmiesthathavelongexperienceinthegovernmentand modus and Maximinus to imitate Severus. Though a man administration of the provinces, as the armies of the Roman who has seized power and is establishing a new monarchy empiredid.Iftheemperorshadtoputtheirarmiesbeforethe cannotimitatethelikesofMarcusAurelius,thatdoesn’tmean people it was because the armies were the more powerful. hehastobehavelikeSeverus.WhathemusttakefromSeverus Thesedaysitismoreimportantforallrulers,withtheexcep- are the policies you need to found a state, and from Marcus tions of the Turkish and Egyptian sultans, to put the people the policies that bring stability and glory once the state is before the army, because the people are more powerful. firmly established.
 
 I’ve made an exception of the Turkish leader because he keeps an army of 12,000 infantry and 15,000 cavalry beside him. Depending on them as he does for the strength and security of his realm he has to put their good will before any other consideration. In the same way, Egypt is entirely at the 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 80 28/05/2015 14:14 80 the prince avoiding contempt and hatred 81 Maximinus in his place.
 
