To defend yourself against foreign powers you need a good Avoiding contempt and hatred army and good allies. And if you have a good army you’ll always have good allies, and when you’re secure against foreignpowersyou’llalwaysbesecureinternallytoo,assuming there wasn’t already a conspiracy under way. Then even when a foreign power does move against you, if you’ve lived and organized yourself as I’ve suggested, you only have to keepyour nerveand you’llsurviveany andevery attack,like Now thatI’ve discussedthe mostimportant ofthe qualitiesI the Spartan ruler Nabis in the example I gave earlier.
 
 listed I’d like to look at the others more briefly in relation to Togetbacktotheinternalsituation:whenthereisnothreat theprinciple,alreadymentioned,thatarulermustavoidany from outside, a ruler must take care that his subjects don’t behaviour that will lead to his being hated or held in con- start conspiring against him. He can guard against this by tempt; every time he manages this he’s done what a ruler making sure he isn’t hated or despised and that people are should and can indulge other bad habits without worrying happy with him, all of which is very important, as I’ve abouttheconsequences.AsI’vealreadysaid,whatmostleads explainedatlength.Infact,oneofthemostpowerfulpreventto a ruler being hated is seizing and stealing his subjects’ ive measures against conspiracies is simply not being hated property and women; that he must not do. As long as you by a majority of the people. People planning a conspiracy don’t deprive them of property or honour most men will be must believe that killing the ruler will be popular; when they happy enough and you’ll only have to watch out for the realize that, on the contrary, it would be unpopular they ambitiousfewwhocaneasilybereinedbackinvariousways. loseheart,becauseconspiraciesarealwaysbesetwithendless You’ll be held in contempt, on the other hand, if you’re seen difficulties. Experience shows that for every successful conas changeable, superficial, effeminate, fearful or indecisive. spiracy there are any number of failures. A conspirator can’t So a ruler must avoid those qualities like so many stumbling actaloneandcanlookforaccomplicesonlyamongpeoplehe blocksandactinsuchawaythateverythinghedoesgivesan believes are unhappy with the situation. But as soon as he impressionofgreatness,spirit,seriousnessandstrength;when reveals his intentions to someone else he’s giving that person presiding over disputes between citizens he should insist that the chance to improve his position, since obviously there are his decision is final and make sure no one imagines they can allkindsofadvantagestobehadfrombetrayingaconspiracy.
 
 trick or outwit him. When you reckon that the benefits of betrayal are assured, The ruler who projects this impression of himself will be whilejoiningaconspiracyisariskyandextremelydangerous highlythoughtofandit’shardtoconspireagainstamanwho business, the man will have to be a rare friend indeed, or a is well thought of. Then so long as he has a reputation for very bitter enemy of the government, if he’s going to keep excellence and is respected by his people it will be hard for faith.
 
 outside enemies to attack him either. A ruler must guard To summarize: on the conspirator’s side all you have is 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 72 28/05/2015 14:14 avoiding contempt and hatred 73 against two kinds of danger: one internal, coming from his 19 ownpeople;theotherexternal,comingfromforeignpowers.
 
