And even if your mercenariesaregood,they’llneverbegoodenoughtodefend Whether fortresses and other strategies you against powerful enemies and a hostile people.
 
 rulers frequently adopt are useful So, as I said, a new ruler in a newly constituted state has always armed his subjects. History offers endless examples.
 
 Butwhenaruleracquiresanewterritorytoaddlikeanextra limb to an existing state, then he must disarm its people, except for the men who supported him when he took it. But with time and opportunity even those men should be kept To hold power more securely, some rulers have disarmed weak and emasculated so that all the real armed force in the their citizens; some have kept subject towns divided in fac- stateasawholeresideswithyourownsoldierswholivewith tions; some have encouraged hostility towards themselves; you in your home base.
 
 others have sought to win over those who were initially sus- Generations ago, the experts in Florence used to say that picious of their rise to power; some have built fortresses; youhadtoholdPistoiabyplayingonitsfactionsandPisaby othershavetornthemdownanddestroyedthem.Andthough holding its fortresses. So they encouraged factionalism in one can’t pass final judgement on these policies without some of the towns they held, the better to control them. In detailed knowledge of the states where such decisions were times when there was a certain balance between opposing taken, all the same I shall try to discuss the matter in general parties in Italy this was probably an effective policy, but I terms as far as is possible. don’t think we should take it as a rule today. I don’t think No one new to power has ever disarmed his subjects; on factional divisionsever reallyimproved thesituation. Onthe the contrary, finding them disarmed new rulers have always contrary, when an enemy approaches, a subject town that’s armed them. When you’re the one giving people arms, those dividedinfactionswillfallatonce.Theweakerofthefactions armsbecomeyours;menwhowerepotentiallyhostilebecome willalwaysjoinforceswiththeattackerandtheotherfaction loyal,whilethosealreadyloyalbecomeyoursupportersrather won’t be strong enough to beat them both.
 
 than just your subjects. It’s true you can’t arm everyone, but The Venetians were reasoning along the same lines, I in favouring some you can feel safer about the others too. believe, when they fomented divisions between Guelphs and Seeingthatthey’vebeenpreferred,themenyou’vearmedwill Ghibellinesinthetownstheyheld;theydidn’tletthefactions beunderanobligationtoyou.Theotherswon’tberesentful, get as far as bloodshed but encouraged divergences so that understanding that the people facing danger for you and people would be too busy with their own disputes to unite bindingtheirlivestoyourswillinevitablydeservethegreater against Venice. It wasn’t, as things turned out, a successful rewards. But when you take arms away from people, then policy. After the Venetians’ defeat at Vaila`, one or other of you start to upset them; you show you don’t trust them the factions immediately took courage and seized control because you’re frightened or cagey. Either way, they’ll begin of the various towns. This kind of policy actually indicates to hate you. Then, since you can hardly manage without an weakness on a ruler’s part; in a healthy, confident state such 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 82 28/05/2015 14:14 whether fortresses and other strategies are useful 83 army, you’ll have to turn to mercenary forces, which will 20 have all the failings I discussed earlier.
 
