This is because these towns are so well 10 fortified that everyone realizes what an arduous, wearisome business it would be to attack them. They all have properly Assessing a state’s strength sized moats and walls; they have the necessary artillery; they have public warehouses with food, drink and firewood for a year; what’s more, to keep people well fed without draining the public purse, they stock materials for a year’s worth of work in whatever trades are the lifeblood of the city and whatever jobs the common folk earn their keep with. They hold military exercises in high regard and make all kinds of When looking at the nature of these various states one arrangements to make sure they’re routinely practised.
 
 important question to ask is: if attacked, does a ruler have So, a ruler whose city is well fortified and who doesn’t sufficientpowertodefendhimselfwithhisownresources,or inspire hatred among his subjects isn’t going to be attacked, will he always have to rely on the protection of others? To and even if he is, his attackers will leave humiliated, because make the question more precise, let’s say that a ruler who the world is such a changeable place that it’s almost imposhas enough men or enough money to put together an army sible to keep an army camped outside a city’s walls doing that can take on all comers is, by my definition, capable nothingforawholeyear.Someonewillobject:whatifpeople of defending himself, while a ruler who can’t take on an have houses outside the walls and see them being burned enemy in the field but has to withdraw behind his city down;won’ttheygetimpatient;won’tthelongsiegeandtheir walls and defend those, is one who will always be in need of worries for their own futures make them forget their ruler?
 
 outside help. We’ve already said something about the first My answer is that a leader with power and personality will kind of ruler [Chapter 6] and later on there’ll be more always get round problems like this; he can raise hopes that [Chapters 11–13]. As for the second kind, one can only the siege won’t last long; he can frighten people with stories encourage them to fortify their home towns and keep them about the enemy’s cruelty; he can move quickly to block well supplied, while leaving the surrounding countryside anyonewhoseemstoohot-headed.Asidefromthis,it’sobvientirely to its fate. If a ruler has built good fortifications and ous that the enemy is going to be burning and razing the managedhisrelationshipwithhissubjectsassuggestedabove countrysideasheapproachesthetownatatimewhenpeople and further elaborated in the following pages, his enemies are still enthusiastic and determined to resist. This actually will always think twice before attacking him. People are givestherulerlesscauseforconcern,becauseafewdayslater, always wary of projects that present obvious difficulties, and whenheartsarecooling,thedamageisalreadydone,theblow attacking a well-defended town and a ruler whose subjects struck,andthere’snowayback.Asaresult,peoplewillrally don’t hate him is never an easy proposition. round their ruler all the more, they’ll see him as indebted to Germancitiesarecompletelyindependent,don’thavemuch them because their houses have been burned and their propterritory around them and obey the emperor only when it ertydestroyedinhisdefence.It’shumannaturetotieyourself suits. They are not afraid of him, nor of any other powerful to a leader as much for the services you’ve done him as the 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 42 28/05/2015 14:14 assessing a state’s strength 43 rulers in the area.
 
