by men like our Italian commanders. Realizing that he could So anyone looking for a no-win situation should turn to neithermakeuseofthemnorletthemgo,hehadthemallcut auxiliaries, because they are far more dangerous even than topieces,andfromthenonfoughtonlywithhisownsoldiers.
 
 mercenaries. With auxiliaries your ruin is guaranteed: they I’d also like to bring in a parable from the Old Testament.
 
 are a tightly knit force and every one of them obedient to When David offered to go and fight the Philistine troublesomeone else; when mercenaries win they need time and a maker, Goliath, on Saul’s behalf, Saul gave him his own convenient opportunity before they can attack you, if only weapons to bolster the boy’s courage. But no sooner had because they’re not a solid united force, you chose them, Davidputthemonthanherefusedthegift,sayinghewouldn’t you’re paying them, and hence it will take the man you put feelconfidentwiththem,hewouldratherfacetheenemywith in command a while to build up sufficient authority to turn his own sling and knife. In the end, other people’s arms are against you. To summarize, the big danger with mercenaries either too loose, too heavy or too tight.
 
 is their indecision, with auxiliaries their determination. When, with luck and good leadership, Charles VII, So, sensible rulers have always avoided using auxiliaries Louis XI’s father, had pushed the English out of France, he and mercenaries, relying instead on their own men and even sawthatarulerneedshisowntroopsandsosetupastanding preferring to lose with their own troops than to win with army of both cavalry and infantry. Later, his son Louis disothers,ontheprinciplethatavictorywonwithforeignforces banded the infantry and began to hire Swiss mercenaries.
 
 is not a real victory at all. As always Cesare Borgia offers a It’s now plain that this mistake, together with others that good example. He invaded Romagna with an army entirely followed, is what lies behind France’s present troubles. By madeupofFrenchauxiliariesandtookImolaandForl`ıwith giving this important role to the Swiss, Louis had weakened them; but since he felt they weren’t reliable he turned to his whole army, since, with no infantry of their own, his mercenaries as a less dangerous option. He hired the Orsini cavalry were now relying on others, and once they’d got and Vitelli armies, but when he found that they dithered in used to fighting alongside the Swiss they started to think battle and were disloyal and dangerous, he had them killed they couldn’t win without them. As a result the French are and trained his own men. It’s easy to see the difference unable to take on the Swiss in battle and won’t fight anyone betweenthesevariouskindsofarmiesifyoulookattheduke’s else without their help. So French forces are now mixed, standingwhenhehadjusttheFrench,whenhehadtheOrsinis part mercenary and part their own men. Such composite andtheVitellis,andwhenhehadhisownsoldiersandrelied forces are much better than just auxiliaries or just mercenonhisownresources.Witheachchangehisprestigegrewand aries,butmuchworsethanhavingallyourownmen.France’s he was only truly respected when everyone could see that his situation proves the point, because if the standing army troops were entirely his own. Charlesrecruitedhadbeenreinforcedorjustmaintained,the IhadplannedtosticktotheserecentItalianexamples,but French would be unbeatable. But men are so thoughtless I wouldn’t like to leave out Hiero of Syracuse since he is they’lloptforadietthattastesgoodwithoutrealizingthere’s one of the men I talked about before. Given command, as I ahiddenpoisoninit:it’sliketheproblemImentionedearlier 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 55 28/05/2015 14:14 56 the prince about people not diagnosing tuberculosis until it’s too late.
 
