manofspiritwhoknowshowtoleadanddoesn’tpanicwhen These are the ones you have to watch out for and guard things get tough, a man who takes the right precautions and against as if they were already declared enemies, because, whose personality and style of government keeps everybody inevitably, when things start going wrong, these men will be in a positive state of mind, then the people will never let him working to bring you down. down and time will show what solid foundations he laid.
 
 A man who becomes king with the support of the people, Thiskindofrulerismostatriskwhenpassingfrompublicly then,mustkeepthosepeopleonhisside.Thisiseasyenough supported leadership to absolute rule. At this point he either sincealltheywantistobefreefromoppression.Buttheman commands directly himself or gives orders by proxy through who becomes king against the will of the majority and with magistrates. If he’s ruling by proxy he’ll be weaker and the support of the wealthy nobles must make it an absolute exposedtogreaterrisks,sincehenowdependsentirelyonthe prioritytowinovertheaffectionofthecommonpeople.This good will of the men appointed as magistrates and they can will be easy if he takes them under his protection. When veryeasilystriphimofhispower,particularlywhentimesare people are treated well by someone they thought was hostile hard, either by attacking him directly or by just not carrying they respond with even greater loyalty; they’ll go over to his out his orders. Once the trouble has begun, the ruler won’t side at once and be even more devoted than if he had taken have time to take absolute command himself because his power with their support. There are all kinds of ways a king citizensandsubjectswillbeusedtotakingordersfrommagiscan win the people’s affection, but since these depend on tratesandtheyaren’tgoingtostartobeyinghiminamoment particular circumstances and one can hardly lay down rules, ofcrisis;sowhenhe’supagainstit,he’llalwaysbestruggling I’ll leave them out of our discussion. I’ll just conclude, then, to find anyone he can trust. A ruler in this position mustn’t thatarulermusthavethepeopleonhisside;otherwisewhen count on what he sees when things are going well and the things get tough there’ll be no way out. citizensneedhisgovernment.Theneverybodycomesrunning, Nabis, the Spartan king, was besieged by forces from all everyone is promising this and that, everyone is ready to die over Greece plus a hugely successful Roman army, but he for him, since there is no question of dying. But when things held out and defended his country and his position against get tough and it’s the government that needs the citizens, thelotofthem.Allhehadtodowhendangerthreatenedwas thenhardlyanyoneshows.Andwhat’ssodangerousabouta take precautions to deal with a few internal enemies, but if criticalmomentlikethisisthatyouonlygetoneshotatit.So he’d had the people against him, this wouldn’t have been if he’s sensible the ruler must work out a situation where enough.Andifanyoneobjectstomyreasoningherewiththat his citizens will always need both his government and him, trite proverb: the man who builds his house on the people is howeverwellorbadlythingsaregoing.Thentheywillalways buildingonmud,myansweristhatthisistrueifit’saprivate be loyal.
 
 citizendoingthebuildingandimaginingthepeoplewillcome tohisrescuewhenhe’sintroublewiththelaworhisenemies.
 
 Men like this usually find themselves being let down, as did the Gracchi brothers in Rome and Giorgio Scali in Florence.
 
 But when it’s a king building on the people, and when he’s a 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 40 28/05/2015 14:14 40 the prince monarchy with public support 41 signthey’relookingmoretotheirownintereststhantoyours.
 
