Each Conquered by Alexander the Great, the baronhasspecificprivilegeswhichakingcanonlytakeaway Kingdom of Darius did not rebel against at his peril. Looking at these two kinds of states, it’s clear thatTurkeyishardtoconquerbutonceconqueredveryeasy his successors after his death. Why not?
 
 tohold.Franceontheotherhandwillbesomewhateasierto conquer but very hard to hold.
 
 Thereasonwhyit’shardtoconqueracountrylikeTurkey isthattherearenobaronstoinviteyouinandyoucan’texpect Nowthatwe’veseenhowdifficultitistoholdontorecently anyone to make your invasion easier by rebelling against the acquired territory some readers will be surprised to recall king. This follows naturally from the situation as described whathappenedwhenAlexandertheGreatconqueredAsiain above; since all subjects are the king’s servants and indebted just a few years, then died very soon after his victory was to him it’s hard to corrupt them, and even assuming you do complete. You would have thought the whole area would manage to bribe someone he’s not likely to be much help have rebelled, yet Alexander’s successors held on to it and because he can’t bring any local people along with him, this the only trouble they had arose from their own personal againforthereasonsI’veexplained.So,anyoneattackingthis ambitions and infighting. To explain this situation let’s start kindofcountryhastoreckonthathewillfinditunitedagainst by remembering that all monarchies on record have been him and hence has to rely on his own armed forces rather governedinoneoftwoways:eitherbyakingandtheservants than on any mutiny in enemy ranks. But once you have won heappointsasministerstorunhiskingdom;orbyakingand and routed the enemy and made sure he can’t rebuild his a number of barons, who are not appointed by the king armies,thentheonlythingtoworryaboutisthekingandhis but hold their positions thanks to hereditary privilege. These family.Eliminatethemandnooneelsecanthreatenyousince barons have their own lands and their own subjects who no one commands the loyalty of the people. Just as before recognize the barons as their masters and are naturally loyal your victory you couldn’t look to any barons for help, so tothem.Whereastateisgovernedbyakingandhisministers after it there are none around to pose a threat.
 
 the king is more powerful since he is the only person in the The opposite is true in countries run along French lines.
 
 state whom people recognize as superior. When they obey Here you can make inroads easily enough, winning the supsomeoneelseitisonlybecauseheisaministerorofficialand port of a baron or two. There’s always someone unhappy they have no special loyalty to him. with the king and eager for change. Then these people are Examples of these two forms of government in our own wellplacedtogetyouafootholdinthecountryandhelpyou times are Turkey and France. The whole of Turkey is gov- to victory. But afterwards you’re going to have all kinds of ernedbyoneruler,orsultan.Everyoneserveshim.Hedivides problemsholdingontowhatyou’vewon,problemswiththe hisrealmintoprovinces,orsanjaks,andsendsadministrators peoplewhofoughtonyoursideandproblemswiththosewho to run them, appointing and dismissing them as he sees fit. fought against you and lost. This time it won’t be enough to 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 17 28/05/2015 14:14 18 the prince eliminatetheking’sfamilybecausetherewillalwaysbebarons 5 ready to assume authority when circumstances swing their way,and,sinceyoucannevergivethemeverythingtheywant andnevereliminatethemall,you’lllosetheterritoryyoutook How to govern cities and states that were as soon as your enemies get an opportunity to rebel.
 
