If you don’t do all it takes at the beginning, said and set up a government with Oliverotto as the ruler. becauseyouwerebadlyadvisedordidn’thavethenerve,then Having killed everyone who opposed the coup and might hit you’ll always have to be wielding the knife; and you’ll never back, he strengthened his position by setting up a new army be able to count on your subjects, since with all the violence and new civil institutions, so that within the year he was not you’re handing out they won’t be able to count on you. So only undisputed master of Fermo but also a serious threat to gettheviolenceoverwithassoonaspossible;thatwaythere’ll the neighbouring towns. And as with Agathocles, it would belesstimeforpeopletotasteitsbitternessandthey’llbeless have been very hard to unseat Oliverotto, had he not let hostile. Favours, on the other hand, should be given out himselfbefooledbyCesareBorgia,when,asexplainedearlier slowly, one by one, so that they can be properly savoured.
 
 on, Borgia lured the Orsini and Vitelli men to Senigallia. Mostof all,though, aruler shouldhave thekind ofrelationOliverotto went with them and so, just a year after killing ship with his subjects where nothing that can happen, good his uncle, he was strangled along with Vitellozzo Vitelli, his orbad,willforcehimtochangehisapproach,becauseifhard mentor in courage and crime. times demand it, your cruelty will come too late, while any Youmightwellwonderhowonearth,afteralltheircount- concessions you make will be seen as wrung out of you and lessbetrayalsandcruelties,menlikeAgathoclescouldsitsafe no one will be impressed.
 
 ontheirthronesforyearsandevendefendthemselvesagainst foreignenemieswithouttheircitizenseverconspiringagainst them;andthiswhilemanyothers,equallyreadytousecruelty, weren’t even able to hold on to their power in peacetime, never mind in war. I think it’s a question of whether cruelty iswell orbadlyused. Crueltywellused (ifwecan everspeak well of something bad) is short-lived and decisive, no more than is necessary to secure your position and then stop; you don’tgoonbeingcruelbutusethepowerithasgivenyouto deliver maximum benefits to your subjects. Cruelty is badly used when you’re not drastic enough at the beginning but grow increasingly cruel later on, rather than easing off. A leader who takes the first approach has a chance, like Agathocles, of improving his position with his subjects and with Godtoo;gotheotherwayandyouhavenochanceatall.
 
 It’s worth noting that when you take hold of a state, you must assess how much violence and cruelty will be necessary and get it over with at once, so as not to have to be cruel on a regular basis. When you’ve stopped using violence your subjects will be reassured and you can then win them over 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 36 28/05/2015 14:14 36 the prince states won by crime 37 palace,withtheresultthatpeoplewereforcedtodowhathe with generosity.
 
