Hadthe The role of luck in human affairs, and how country been properly protected, like Germany, Spain and to defend against it France,eitherthefloodwouldn’thavehadsuchdrasticeffects or it wouldn’t have happened at all.
 
 I think that is all that need be said in general terms about how to deal with the problem of luck.
 
 Going into detail, though, we’ve all seen how a ruler may be doing well one day and then lose power the next without I realize that many people have believed and still do believe any apparent change in his character or qualities. I believe thattheworldisrunbyGodandbyfortuneandthathowever this is mostly due to the attitude I mentioned above: that is, shrewdmenmaybetheycan’tdoanythingaboutitandhave therulertrustsentirelytoluckandcollapseswhenitchanges.
 
 noway ofprotectingthemselves.As aresulttheymay decide I’m also convinced that the successful ruler is the one who that it’s hardly worth making an effort and just leave events adapts to changing times; while the leader who fails does so to chance. This attitude is more prevalent these days as a because his approach is out of step with circumstances.
 
 result of the huge changes we’ve witnessed and are still wit- Allmenwantgloryandwealth,buttheysetouttoachieve nessing every day, things that no one could have predicted. thosegoalsindifferentways.Somearecautious,othersimpulSometimes, thinking it over, I have leaned a bit that way sive;someuseviolence,othersfinesse;somearepatient,others myself. quite the opposite. And all these different approaches can be All the same, and so as not to give up on our free will, I successful. It’s also true that two men can both be cautious reckon it may be true that luck decides the half of what we butwithdifferentresults:oneissuccessfulandtheotherfails.
 
 do, but it leaves the other half, more or less, to us. It’s like Or again you see two men being equally successful but with one of those raging rivers that sometimes rise and flood the different approaches, one cautious, the other impulsive. This plain, tearing down trees and buildings, dragging soil from depends entirelyon whethertheir approachsuits thecircumone place and dumping it down in another. Everybody runs stances,whichinturniswhy,asIsaid,twomenwithdifferent for safety, no one can resist the rush, there’s no way you can approaches may both succeed while, of two with the same stopit.Still,thefactthatariverislikethisdoesn’tpreventus approach, one may succeed and the other not.
 
 from preparing for trouble when levels are low, building This explains why people’s fortunes go up and down. If banks and dykes, so that when the water rises the next time someone is behaving cautiously and patiently and the times it can be contained in a single channel and the rush of the andcircumstancesaresuchthattheapproachworks,he’llbe river in flood is not so uncontrolled and destructive. successful.Butiftimesandcircumstanceschange,everything Fortune’s the same. It shows its power where no one has goeswrong forhim, becausehe hasn’tchanged hisapproach taken steps to contain it, flooding into places where it finds tomatch.Youwon’tfindanyoneshrewdenoughtoadapthis neither banks nor dykes that can hold it back. And if you characterlikethis,inpartbecauseyoucan’talteryournatural 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 99 28/05/2015 14:14 100 the prince the role of luck in human affairs 101 biasandinpartbecause,ifapersonhasalwaysbeensuccessful When their approach suits the times they’re successful, and with a particular approach, he won’t easily be persuaded to whenitdoesn’tthey’renot.
 
