What Alexander had before coming to power. todothenwasunderminethestatusquoandtheauthorityof I’d like to mention two men from our own times who his rivals so as to seize control of part of their lands with achieved power in these different ways, one through his own impunity. This turned out to be easy because, for reasons all abilities and one by luck. The people I have in mind are their own, the Venetians were now determined to bring the Francesco Sforza and Cesare Borgia. With the right policies French back into Italy. Rather than opposing the move, the and great courage, Sforza, a commoner, became Duke of pope smoothed the way by dissolving King Louis’s first Milan and, having won power with enormous effort, held marriage for him.
 
 on to it easily enough. Borgia, on the other hand, or Duke So the French king entered Italy with Venetian help and Valentinoashewascommonlyknown,receivedhisterritories papal consent. No sooner had he taken Milan than the pope thanks to his father’s position, and when his father died he got the king to send troops to help his son, Borgia, take lostthem,thisdespitethefactthatheusedallmeansavailable Romagna, something that would have been impossible withand did everything a sensible, capable man could have done out Louis’s support. With the forces of the Colonna family to lay the foundations for his own rule in the lands that now beaten, Borgia faced two obstacles if he was to hold on another man’s army and position had won for him. As we to Romagna and acquire further territory: the first was his said earlier on, if you haven’t laid the foundations before own army, which he suspected of disloyalty; the second was becoming king, it takes very special qualities to do it after- French policy. Duke Valentino had been using the forces of wards,andeventhenit’llbetoughforthearchitectandrisky theOrsinifamilybutwasafraidtheywouldstopobeyinghis for the building. If we look carefully at Borgia’s strategies, orders, preventing him from making new gains and perhaps we’ll see that he did in fact lay down good foundations for deprivinghimoftheold.Andhehadthesameworriesabout future power; and I think it makes sense to discuss how he the King of France. His doubts about the Orsinis were condid it, because I wouldn’t know what better advice to give a firmed when, after taking Faenza, he attacked Bologna, and ruler new to power than to follow his example. If his efforts saw the soldiers anything but enthusiastic. Louis’s position eventually came to nothing, it was not due to his own short- became clear when, having taken Urbino, Borgia advanced comings, but to an extraordinary run of bad luck. towards Tuscany only to have the French king insist he turn When Pope Alexander VI decided to turn his son into a back. After that he decided never to rely on other people’s powerful duke, he faced all kinds of obstacles, present and armies and authority again.
 
 future.First,hecouldn’tseehowhecouldmakehimrulerof SofirstofallheweakenedtheOrsiniandColonnafactions anywherethatwasn’tChurchterritory.Butheknewthatifhe in Rome by luring the noblemen who supported them over gaveawayChurchland,theDukeofMilanandtheVenetians to his side with generous salaries and military and political wouldblockhim,sinceFaenzaandRiminiwerealreadyunder appointments in line with each man’s rank. In a few months Venetianprotection. What’smore,thearmies thenoperating old loyalties were forgotten and they were all for the duke.
 
 in Italy, particularly those the pope might have called on for Then,havingbrokenuptheColonnaleaders,hewaitedfora 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 26 28/05/2015 14:14 26 the prince states won by lucky circumstance 27 ruler turns out to be so talented that he immediately sets to help,were allcontrolledbypeople –theOrsini,the Colonna work to defend what luck has brought his way and to build andassociatedfamilies–whohadreasontofearpapalexpanthe foundations that another leader would have established sionism, and hence couldn’t be trusted.
 
