If all men were good, tack as luck and circumstances demand, and, as I’ve already this would be bad advice, but since they are a sad lot and said, stick to the good if he can but know how to be bad won’t be keeping their promises to you, you hardly need to when the occasion demands.
 
 keep yours to them. Anyway, a ruler will never be short of So a ruler must be extremely careful not to say anything good reasons to explain away a broken promise. It would be that doesn’t appear to be inspired by the five virtues listed easy to cite any number of examples from modern times to above; he must seem and sound wholly compassionate, show just how many peace treaties and other commitments wholly loyal, wholly humane, wholly honest and wholly have been rendered null and void by rulers not keeping their religious.Thereisnothingmoreimportantthanappearingto word.Thosebestatplayingthefoxhavedonebetterthanthe be religious. In general people judge more by appearances others. But you have to know how to disguise your slyness, than first-hand experience, because everyone gets to see you how to pretend one thing and cover up another. People are buthardlyanyonedealswithyoudirectly.Everyoneseeswhat so gullible and so caught up with immediate concerns that a you seem to be, few have experience of who you really are, con man will always find someone ready to be conned. andthosefewwon’thavethecouragetostanduptomajority There’s one recent example that really should be men- opinionunderwrittenbytheauthorityofstate.Whenthey’re tioned.PopeAlexanderVIneverdidanythingbutconpeople. weighingupwhatsomeonehasachieved–andthisisparticuThat was all he ever thought about. And he always found larly true with rulers, who can’t be held to account – people people he could con. No one ever gave more convincing look at the end result. So if a leader does what it takes to promisesthanAlexander,orsworegreateroathstobackthem win power and keep it, his methods will always be reckoned up,andnooneeverkepthispromisesless;yethisdeceptions honourable and widely praised. The crowd is won over by always worked, because he knew this side of human nature appearancesandfinalresults.Andtheworldisallcrowd:the so well. dissentingfewfindnospacesolongasthemajorityhaveany So,aleaderdoesn’thavetopossessallthevirtuousqualities groundsatallfortheiropinions.There’sacertainkingtoday* I’vementioned,butit’sabsolutelyimperativethatheseemto –I’dbetternotcallhimbyname–whoneverstopspreaching possess them. I’ll go so far as to say this: if he had those peace and trust and is actually sworn enemy to both; and if qualities and observed them all the time, he’d be putting he had ever practised either he would have lost his authority himself at risk. It’s seeming to be virtuous that helps; as, for or his kingdom many times over.
 
 example,seemingtobecompassionate,loyal,humane,honest and religious. And you can even be those things, so long as you’re always mentally prepared to change as soon as your interestsarethreatened.Whatyouhavetounderstandisthat a ruler, especially a ruler new to power, can’t always behave in ways that would make people think a man good, because tostayinpowerhe’sfrequentlyobligedtoactagainstloyalty, against charity, against humanity and against religion. What *FerdinandofAragon.
 
 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 71 28/05/2015 14:14 avoiding contempt and hatred 73 against two kinds of danger: one internal, coming from his 19 ownpeople;theotherexternal,comingfromforeignpowers.
 
