Looking carefully at the reasons for this and peacetime when they make it easier to keep people under drawingontheexamplesavailablefromancientandmodern control. In times of war everyone can see how flawed the history, we find that it is much easier to win over those who policy is. were content with the previous government, and hence your There’s no doubt that rulers achieve greatness by over- enemies,thanthemenwhowerenotcontentandsomadean coming the obstacles and enemies they find in their path. So alliance with you and helped you take the country.
 
 whendestinywantstomakea rulergreat,particularlyanew Onewayrulershavetriedtosecuretheirpowerisbybuildruler who, unlike a hereditary king, really needs to build up ingfortressestocurbanddiscouragepotentialaggressorsand his reputation, it sends him enemies and prompts them to to offer a safe refuge in case of sudden attack. I approve of attack him. That way he has the chance to beat them and this policy, if only because it has been used for centuries. All climb the ladder his enemies have put in front of him. Hence the same, there is the recent example of Niccolo` Vitelli who manypeoplereckonthatwhentheopportunitypresentsitself demolishedtwofortressesinCitta` diCastelloinordertohold a smart ruler will shrewdly provoke hostility so that he can the town. When Guidobaldo retook possession of his lands then increase his reputation by crushing it. after Cesare Borgia’s occupation, he razed every fortress in Rulers,andespeciallythosenewtopower,havefoundthat the state to the ground, convinced that he’d be less likely to men they initially doubted prove more loyal and useful than lose it again without them. And when the Bentivoglio family thosetheytrusted.PandolfoPetrucciranSienamorewiththe returned to power in Bologna it did the same thing. So, menhehaddoubtedthantheothers.Butit’shardtolaydown whetherfortressesareusefulornotwilldependonthecircumfirm rules here because things vary from case to case. I’ll just stances;inonesituationthey’llbeahelpandinanotherthey’ll say this: that a ruler can very easily win over men who bedangerous.Wecansumupthereasonsforthisasfollows.
 
 opposed him when he came to power, if they are not in a The ruler who is more afraid of his people than of foreign position to support themselves with their own resources. enemies must build fortresses; but the ruler who is more They’ll be forced to behave more loyally than others in that afraidofforeignenemiesshoulddowithoutthem.Thecastle they know they have to work hard to offset the negative FrancescoSforza builtinMilanhas provokedandwillgo on impression the ruler initially had of them. So a ruler can provokingmorerebellionsagainsttheSforzafamilythanany alwaysgetmoreoutofsuchmenthanoutofpeoplewhofeel other cause of unrest in the whole state. Your best fortress is too safe in his service and don’t really make an effort. not to be hated by the people, because even if you do have Since the discussion demands it, I wouldn’t like to leave fortresses, they won’t save you if the people hate you. Once out a reminder to any ruler who has taken a new state with the people have decided to take up arms against you they’ll insidehelpthathemustthinkhardaboutwhythelocalpeople neverbeshortofforeignsupport.Inrecenttimesthereareno who helped him did so. If they didn’t act out of natural examples of fortresses having proved useful to any ruler at friendship for the new ruler, but only because the previous all, with the exception of the Countess of Forlı`, Caterina government wasn’t giving them what they wanted, it will Sforza,whenherhusband,CountGirolamoRiario,wasmurbe extremely demanding and difficult to keep their support, dered. Taking refuge in the fortress, she was able to survive because the new ruler won’t be able to give them what they the rebels’ assault, wait till help came from Milan, then take 9780141442259_ThePrince_TXT.indd 85 28/05/2015 14:14 86 the prince control again.
 
