’ Andtothosewhoarenotrichandareimpatientofoldage,thesame replymaybemade;fortothegoodpoormanoldagecannotbealightburden, norcanabadrichmaneverhavepeacewithhimself.
 
 MayIask, Cephalus, whetheryourfortunewasforthemostpartinheritedor acquiredbyyou?
 
 Acquired! Socrates; do you want to know how much I acquired? In the art of making money I have been midway between my father and grandfather: for my grandfather, whose name I bear, doubled and trebled the value of his patrimony, that which he inherited being much what I possess now; but my fatherLysaniasreducedthepropertybelowwhatitisatpresent: andIshallbe satisfiedifIleavetothesemysonsnotlessbutalittlemorethanIreceived.
 
 ThatwaswhyIaskedyouthequestion,Ireplied,becauseIseethatyouareindifferentaboutmoney,whichisacharacteristicratherofthosewhohaveinheritedtheirfortunesthanofthosewhohaveacquiredthem;themakersoffortunes haveasecondloveofmoneyasacreationoftheirown,resemblingtheaffectionofauthorsfortheirownpoems,orofparentsfortheirchildren,besidesthat natural love of it for the sake of use and profit which is common to them and allmen. Andhencetheyareverybadcompany,fortheycantalkaboutnothing butthepraisesofwealth.
 
 Thatistrue,hesaid.
 
 Yes,thatisverytrue,butmayIaskanotherquestion?–Whatdoyouconsiderto bethegreatestblessingwhichyouhavereapedfromyourwealth?
 
 One,hesaid,ofwhichIcouldnotexpecteasilytoconvinceothers. Forletme tell you, Socrates, that when a man thinks himself to be near death, fears and cares enter into his mind which he never had before; the tales of a world belowandthepunishmentwhichisexactedthereofdeedsdoneherewereonce alaughingmattertohim, butnowheistormentedwiththethoughtthatthey may be true: either from the weakness of age, or because he is now drawing nearertothatotherplace,hehasaclearerviewofthesethings;suspicionsand alarms crowd thickly upon him, and he begins to reflect and consider what wrongshehasdonetoothers. Andwhenhefindsthatthesumofhistransgressionsisgreathewillmanyatimelikeachildstartupinhissleepforfear,and heisfilledwithdarkforebodings. Buttohimwhoisconsciousofnosin,sweet hope,asPindarcharminglysays,isthekindnurseofhisage: ’Hope,’ he says, ’cherishes the soul of him who lives in justice and holiness, and is the nurse of his age and the companion of his journey;– hope which is mightiesttoswaytherestlesssoulofman.’ http://www.idph.net IDPH 181 Howadmirablearehiswords!
 
