Youareasculptor, Socrates, andhavemadestatuesofourgovernorsfaultless inbeauty.
 
 Yes,Isaid,Glaucon,andofourgovernessestoo;foryoumustnotsupposethat whatIhavebeensayingappliestomenonlyandnottowomenasfarastheir naturescango.
 
 Thereyouareright,hesaid,sincewehavemadethemtoshareinallthingslike themen.
 
 Well, I said, and you would agree (would you not?) that what has been said abouttheStateandthegovernmentisnotameredream,andalthoughdifficult not impossible, but only possible in the way which has been supposed; that is to say, when the true philosopher kings are born in a State, one or more of them,despisingthehonoursofthispresentworldwhichtheydeemmeanand worthless, esteeming above all things right and the honour that springs from right, and regarding justice as the greatest and most necessary of all things, whoseministerstheyare, andwhoseprincipleswillbeexaltedbythemwhen theysetinordertheirowncity?
 
 Howwilltheyproceed?
 
 They will begin by sending out into the country all the inhabitants of the city who are more than ten years old, and will take possession of their children, who will be unaffected by the habits of their parents; these they will train in theirownhabitsandlaws,Imeaninthelawswhichwehavegiventhem: and inthiswaytheStateandconstitutionofwhichwewerespeakingwillsoonest andmosteasilyattainhappiness,andthenationwhichhassuchaconstitution willgainmost.
 
 Yes, that will be the best way. And I think, Socrates, that you have very well describedhow,ifever,suchaconstitutionmightcomeintobeing.
 
 EnoughthenoftheperfectState, andofthemanwhobearsitsimage–thereis nodifficultyinseeinghowweshalldescribehim.
 
 Thereisnodifficulty,hereplied;andIagreewithyouinthinkingthatnothing moreneedbesaid.
 
 http://www.idph.net BOOK VIII And so, Glaucon, we have arrived at the conclusion that in the perfect State wivesandchildrenaretobeincommon;andthatalleducationandthepursuits of war and peace are also to be common, and the best philosophers and the bravestwarriorsaretobetheirkings?
 
