We too are inspired by that love of poetry which the education of noble States has implanted in us, and therefore we would have her appear at her best and truest; but so long as she is unable to make good her defence, this argument of ours shall be a charm to us, which we will repeat to ourselves while we listen to her strains; that we may not fall away into the childish love of her which captivates the many. At all events we are well aware that poetry being such as we have described is not to be regarded seriously as attaining to the truth; and he who listens to her, fearing for the safety of the city which is within him, should be on his guard against her seductions and make our words his law.

“Yes,” he said, “I quite agree with you.”

“Yes,” I said, my dear Glaucon, “for great is the issue at stake, greater than appears, whether a man is to be good or bad. And what will anyone be profited if under the influence of honour or money or power, aye, or under the excitement of poetry, he neglect justice and virtue?”

“Yes,” he said; “I have been convinced by the argument, as I believe that anyone else would have been.”

And yet no mention has been made of the greatest prizes and rewards which await virtue.

“What, are there any greater still? If there are, they must be of an inconceivable greatness.”

“Why,” I said, “what was ever great in a short time? The whole period of three score years and ten is surely but a little thing in comparison with eternity?”

“Say rather ‘nothing,’” he replied.

And should an immortal being seriously think of this little space rather than of the whole?

Of the whole, certainly. But why do you ask?

Are you not aware, I said, that the soul of man is immortal and imperishable?

He looked at me in astonishment, and said: “No, by heaven: And are you really prepared to maintain this?”

“Yes,” I said, “I ought to be, and you too – there is no difficulty in proving it.”

“I see a great difficulty; but I should like to hear you state this argument of which you make so light.”

“Listen then.”

http://www.idph.net IDPH 473 I am attending.
