Indeed, we may.  

And does not the latter–I mean the rebellious principle–furnish a great variety of materials for imitation? Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre. For the feeling represented is one to which they are strangers.  

Certainly.  

Then the imitative poet who aims at being popular is not by nature made, nor is his art intended, to please or to affect the rational principle in the soul; but he will prefer the passionate and fitful temper, which is easily imitated?  

Clearly.  

And now we may fairly take him and place him by the side of the painter, for he is like him in two ways: first, inasmuch as his creations have an inferior degree of truth–in this, I say, he is like him; and he is also like him in being concerned with an inferior part of the soul; and therefore we shall be right in refusing to admit him into a well-ordered State, because he awakens and nourishes and strengthens the feelings and impairs the reason. As in a city when the evil are permitted to have authority and the good are put out of the way, so in the soul of man, as we maintain, the imitative poet implants an evil constitution, for he indulges the irrational nature which has no discernment of greater and less, but thinks the same thing at one time great and at another small–he is a manufacturer of images and is very far removed from the truth.  

Exactly.  

But we have not yet brought forward the heaviest count in our accusation:–the power which poetry has of harming even the good (and there are very few who are not harmed), is surely an awful thing?  

Yes, certainly, if the effect is what you say.  

Hear and judge: The best of us, as I conceive, when we listen to a passage of Homer, or one of the tragedians, in which he represents some pitiful hero who is drawing out his sorrows in a long oration, or weeping, and smiting his breast–the best of us, you know, delight in giving way to sympathy, and are in raptures at the excellence of the poet who stirs our feelings most.  

Yes, of course I know.  

But when any sorrow of our own happens to us, then you may observe that we pride ourselves on the opposite quality–we would fain be quiet and patient; http://www.idph.net 470 IDPH this is the manly part, and the other which delighted us in the recitation is now deemed to be the part of a woman.
