"Charming!" he replied. "I see nothing charming in going into a passion with a man who tells you what is right."

"These gentlemen," I said, "do not seem to be in your good graces."

"Assuredly not."

"Nor would you praise the behaviour of States which act like the men whom I was just now describing. For are there not ill-ordered States in which the citizens are forbidden under pain of death to alter the constitution; and yet he who most sweetly courts those who live under this regime and indulges them and fawns upon them and is skilful in anticipating and gratifying their humours is held to be a great and good statesman – do not these States resemble the persons whom I was describing?"

"Yes," he said; "the States are as bad as the men; and I am very far from praising them."

"But do you not admire," I said, "the coolness and dexterity of these ready ministers of political corruption?"

"Yes," he said, "I do; but not of all of them, for there are some whom the applause of the multitude has deluded into the belief that they are really statesmen, and these are not much to be admired."

"What do you mean?" I said; "you should have more feeling for them. When a man cannot measure, and a great many others who cannot measure declare that he is four cubits high, can he help believing what they say?"

"Nay," he said, "certainly not in that case."

"Well, then, do not be angry with them; for are they not as good as a play, trying their hand at paltry reforms such as I was describing; they are always fancying that by legislation they will make an end of frauds in contracts, and the other rascalities which I was mentioning, not knowing that they are in reality cutting off the heads of a hydra?"

"Yes," he said; "that is just what they are doing."

"I conceive," I said, "that the true legislator will not trouble himself with this class of enactments whether concerning laws or the constitution either in an ill-ordered or in a well-ordered State; for in the former they are quite useless, and in the latter there will be no difficulty in devising them; and many of them will naturally flow out of our previous regulations."

http://www.idph.net IDPH 283

"What, then," he said, "is still remaining to us of the work of legislation?"
