We vainly search in Plato’s own writings for any explanationofthisseemingabsurdity.
 
 The discovery of a great metaphysical conception seems to ravish the mind with a prophetic consciousness which takes away the power of estimating its value.Nometaphysicalenquirerhaseverfairlycriticisedhisownspeculations; in his own judgment they have been above criticism; nor has he understood that what to him seemed to be absolute truth may reappear in the next generationasaformoflogicoraninstrumentofthought. Andposterityhavealso sometimes equally misapprehended the real value of his speculations. They appeartothemtohavecontributednothingtothestockofhumanknowledge.
 
 The IDEA of good is apt to be regarded by the modern thinker as an unmeaning abstraction; but he forgets that this abstraction is waiting ready for use, andwillhereafterbefilledupbythedivisionsofknowledge. Whenmankind donotasyetknowthattheworldissubjecttolaw,theintroductionofthemere conception of law or design or final cause, and the far-off anticipation of the harmonyofknowledge,aregreatstepsonward. Eventhecrudegeneralization oftheunityofallthingsleadsmentoviewtheworldwithdifferenteyes, and may easily affect their conception of human life and of politics, and also their ownconductandcharacter(Tim). Wecanimaginehowagreatmindlikethat ofPericlesmightderiveelevationfromhisintercoursewithAnaxagoras(Phaedr.). Tobestrugglingtowardsahigherbutunattainableconceptionisamore favourableintellectualconditionthantorestsatisfiedinanarrowportionofascertainedfact. Andtheearlier,whichhavesometimesbeenthegreaterideasof science, are often lostsight of ata later period. Howrarely can wesay of any modernenquirerinthemagnificentlanguageofPlato,that’Heisthespectator ofalltimeandofallexistence!’ Noristhereanythingunnaturalinthehastyapplicationofthesevastmetaphysicalconceptionstopracticalandpoliticallife. Inthefirstenthusiasmofideas men are apt to see them everywhere, and to apply them in the most remote sphere. They do not understand that the experience of ages is required to enable them to fill up ’the intermediate axioms.’ Plato himself seems to have imaginedthatthetruthsofpsychology,likethoseofastronomyandharmonics, would be arrived at by a process of deduction, and that the method which he haspursuedintheFourthBook,ofinferringthemfromexperienceandtheuse oflanguage, wasimperfectandonlyprovisional. Butwhen, afterhavingarrivedattheideaofgood,whichistheendofthescienceofdialectic,heisasked, What is the nature, and what are the divisions of the science? He refuses to answer, as if intending by the refusal to intimate that the state of knowledge whichthenexistedwasnotsuchaswouldallowthephilosophertoenterinto hisfinalrest.Theprevioussciencesmustfirstbestudied,andwill,wemayadd, continue to be studied tell the end of time, although in a sense different from any which Plato could have conceived. But we may observe, that while he is http://www.idph.net 150 IDPH awareofthevacancyofhisownideal,heisfullofenthusiasminthecontemplationofit.
 
