And so I say to you, do not compel us to assign to the guardians a sort of happiness which will make them anything but guardians; for we too can clothe our husbandmen in royal apparel,andsetcrownsofgoldontheirheads,andbidthemtillthegroundas much as they like, and no more. Our potters also might be allowed to repose on couches, and feast by the fireside, passing round the winecup, while their wheel is conveniently at hand, and working at pottery only as much as they like; inthiswaywemightmakeeveryclasshappy–andthen, asyouimagine, thewholeStatewouldbehappy. Butdonotputthisideaintoourheads;for,if welistentoyou,thehusbandmanwillbenolongerahusbandman,thepotter will cease to be a potter, and no one will have the character of any distinct classintheState. Nowthisisnotofmuchconsequencewherethecorruptionof society,andpretensiontobewhatyouarenot,isconfinedtocobblers;butwhen theguardiansofthelawsandofthegovernmentareonlyseemingandnotreal guardians, then see how they turn the State upside down; and on the other hand they alone have the power of giving order and happiness to the State.
 
 WemeanourguardianstobetruesavioursandnotthedestroyersoftheState, whereas our opponent is thinking of peasants at a festival, who are enjoying a life of revelry, not of citizens who are doing their duty to the State. But, if so, we mean different things, and he is speaking of something which is not a State.Andthereforewemustconsiderwhetherinappointingourguardianswe wouldlooktotheirgreatesthappinessindividually,orwhetherthisprincipleof happinessdoesnotratherresideintheStateasawhole. Butifthelatterbethe truth,thentheguardiansandauxiliaries,andallothersequallywiththem,must be compelled or induced to do their own work in the best way. And thus the whole State will grow up in a noble order, and the several classes will receive theproportionofhappinesswhichnatureassignstothem.
 
 Ithinkthatyouarequiteright.
 
 Iwonderwhetheryouwillagreewithanotherremarkwhichoccurstome.
 
 Whatmaythatbe?
 
 Thereseemtobetwocausesofthedeteriorationofthearts.
 
 Whatarethey?
 
 Wealth,Isaid,andpoverty.
 
 Howdotheyact?
 
 Theprocessisasfollows: Whenapotterbecomesrich,willhe,thinkyou,any http://www.idph.net IDPH 277 longertakethesamepainswithhisart?
 
