Theone,theself-proving,thegoodwhichisthehighersphereofdialectic, istheperfecttruthtowhichallthingsascend,andinwhichtheyfinallyrepose.
 
 Thisself-provingunityorideaofgoodisamerevisionofwhichnodistinctexplanationcanbegiven,relativeonlytoaparticularstageinGreekphilosophy.It isanabstractionunderwhichnoindividualsarecomprehended,awholewhich has no parts (Arist., Nic. Eth.). The vacancy of such a form was perceived by Aristotle,butnotbyPlato. Nordidherecognizethatinthedialecticalprocess areincludedtwoormoremethodsofinvestigationwhichareatvariancewith eachother. Hedidnotseethatwhetherhetookthelongerortheshorterroad, noadvancecouldbemadeinthisway. Andyetsuchvisionsoftenhaveanimmenseeffect;foralthoughthemethodofsciencecannotanticipatescience,the idea of science, not as it is, but as it will be in the future, is a great and inspiringprinciple. Inthepursuitofknowledgewearealwayspressingforwardto somethingbeyondus;andasafalseconceptionofknowledge,forexamplethe scholasticphilosophy,mayleadmenastrayduringmanyages,sothetrueideal, thoughvacant,maydrawalltheirthoughtsinarightdirection. Itmakesagreat difference whether the general expectation of knowledge, as this indefinite feelingmaybetermed,isbaseduponasoundjudgment. Formankindmayoftenentertainatrueconceptionofwhatknowledgeoughttobewhentheyhave butaslenderexperienceoffacts. Thecorrelationofthesciences,theconsciousnessoftheunityofnature,theideaofclassification,thesenseofproportion,the unwillingnesstostopshortofcertaintyortoconfoundprobabilitywithtruth, areimportantprinciplesofthehighereducation. AlthoughPlatocouldtellus nothing,andperhapsknewthathecouldtellusnothing,oftheabsolutetruth, hehasexercisedaninfluenceonthehumanmindwhichevenatthepresentday isnotexhausted; andpoliticalandsocialquestionsmayyetariseinwhichthe thoughtsofPlatomaybereadanewandreceiveafreshmeaning.
 
 The Idea of good is so called only in the Republic, but there are traces of it in other dialogues of Plato. It is a cause as well as an idea, and from this point of view may be compared with the creator of the Timaeus, who out of his goodness created all things. It corresponds to a certain extent with the modern conceptionofalawofnature,orofafinalcause,orofbothinone,andinthis regardmaybeconnectedwiththemeasureandsymmetryofthePhilebus. Itis representedintheSymposiumundertheaspectofbeauty, andissupposedto be attained there by stages of initiation, as here by regular gradations of knowledge. Viewedsubjectively,itistheprocessorscienceofdialectic. Thisisthe science which, according to the Phaedrus, is the true basis of rhetoric, which alone is able to distinguish the natures and classes of men and things; which divides a whole into the natural parts, and reunites the scattered parts into a natural or organized whole; which defines the abstract essences or universal ideasofallthings,andconnectsthem;whichpiercestheveilofhypothesesand http://www.idph.net 158 IDPH reachesthefinalcauseorfirstprincipleofall;whichregardsthesciencesinrelationtotheideaofgood.
 
