Hethrowsaveilofmysteryovertheoriginofthe decline,whichheattributestoignoranceofthelawofpopulation. Ofthislaw thefamousgeometricalfigureornumberistheexpression. Liketheancientsin general,hehadnoideaofthegradualperfectibilityofmanoroftheeducation of the human race. His ideal was not to be attained in the course of ages, but was to spring in full armour from the head of the legislator. When good laws hadbeengiven,hethoughtonlyofthemannerinwhichtheywerelikelytobe corrupted,orofhowtheymightbefilledupindetailorrestoredinaccordance with their original spirit. He appears not to have reflected upon the full meaning of his own words, ’In the brief space of human life, nothing great can be accomplished’;oragain,asheafterwardssaysintheLaws,’Infinitetimeisthe makerofcities.’ Theorderofconstitutionswhichisadoptedbyhimrepresents anorderofthoughtratherthanasuccessionoftime,andmaybeconsideredas thefirstattempttoframeaphilosophyofhistory.

The first of these declining States is timocracy, or the government of soldiers andloversofhonour,whichanswerstotheSpartanState;thisisagovernment offorce, in whicheducationisnotinspired bytheMuses, butimposedby the law,andinwhichallthefinerelementsoforganizationhavedisappeared. The philosopherhimselfhaslosttheloveoftruth,andthesoldier,whoisofasimpler and honester nature, rules in his stead. The individual who answers to timocracy has some noticeable qualities. He is described as ill educated, but, liketheSpartan, aloverofliterature; andalthoughheisaharshmastertohis servantshehasnonaturalsuperiorityoverthem. Hischaracterisbasedupon a reaction against the circumstances of his father, who in a troubled city has retired from politics; and his mother, who is dissatisfied at her own position, is always urging him towards the life of political ambition. Such a character mayhavehadthisorigin,andindeedLivyattributestheLicinianlawstoafemininejealousyofasimilarkind.Butthereisobviouslynoconnectionbetween themannerinwhichthetimocraticStatespringsoutoftheideal,andthemere accidentbywhichthetimocraticmanisthesonofaretiredstatesman.

The two next stages in the decline of constitutions have even less historical foundation. For there is no trace in Greek history of a polity like the Spartan orCretanpassingintoanoligarchyofwealth,oroftheoligarchyofwealthpassing into a democracy. The order of history appears to be different; first, in theHomerictimesthereistheroyalorpatriarchalformofgovernment,which a century or two later was succeeded by an oligarchy of birth rather than of wealth, andinwhichwealthwasonlytheaccidentofthehereditarypossessionoflandandpower. Sometimesthisoligarchicalgovernmentgavewaytoa government based upon a qualification of property, which, according to Aristotle’s mode of using words, would have been called a timocracy; and this in http://www.idph.net IDPH 99 some cities, as at Athens, became the conducting medium to democracy.
