After thinking more about how pipes resist fluid flow, I decided to share my invention with everyone.

Another idea I had was to build a ring around the equator that could float and spin. By stopping the spin with certain forces, people could travel at about a thousand miles per hour, which trains can’t do. You might laugh at this plan. It was hard to build, I admit, but not as crazy as a famous New York professor who wanted to move air from hot places to cooler ones, forgetting that nature already does this perfectly.

I also had a more important idea to get power from the Earth’s spinning. I found out that things on Earth move with and against the planet’s rotation. This causes big changes in momentum that could be used easily to create energy anywhere on Earth. I was really disappointed later when I realized I was stuck like Archimedes, who looked for something fixed in the universe but couldn’t find it.

At the end of my vacation, I went to the Polytechnic School in Gratz, Styria, which my dad picked because it was one of the oldest and best schools. I had waited a long time for this and started studying with strong hopes to do well. My past learning was better than most because of my dad’s teaching and the chances I had.

I knew some languages and read many books, learning useful facts. For the first time, I could pick my own subjects, and I wouldn’t have to do free-hand drawing anymore.

I wanted to surprise my parents, so during my first year, I worked from 3 a.m. until 11 p.m., every day with no breaks. Most students took it easy, so I broke all the records. That year, I passed nine exams, and the teachers thought I deserved top grades. I went home proud, but my dad didn’t care much about my hard work. That almost killed my motivation. After he died, I found letters from my teachers saying he should have taken me out of school because I was working too hard.

After that, I focused mostly on physics, mechanics, and math, spending free time in libraries. I had a strong need to finish everything I started, which sometimes caused problems. Once, I tried to read all of Voltaire’s works and found out there were nearly 100 big books in tiny print! He wrote all that while drinking 72 cups of black coffee a day. I finished, but I was very happy to be done and said, “Never again!” My first year earned me respect and friendship from some teachers.

These included Prof. Rogner, who taught arithmetic and geometry; Prof. Poeschl, who taught theoretical and experimental physics; and Dr. Alle, who taught advanced calculus and differential equations. Dr. Alle was the best teacher I ever heard. He cared about my progress and often stayed after class to give me extra problems, which I loved.

I told him about a flying machine I had designed. It wasn’t just a dream but based on real science, and thanks to my turbine, it will soon be ready for the world. Professors Rogner and Poeschl were both curious men. Rogner spoke in odd ways that made the class laugh and then go quiet. Poeschl was a careful, well-trained German with huge hands and feet like a bear’s. But all his experiments were done perfectly, never missing a step.
