This caused me a lot of discomfort and anxiety. None of the psychology or physiology students I asked could explain these experiences well. They seemed unique, although I probably was more likely to have them since my brother had similar problems. I think the images were a reflex from my brain affecting my eyes when I was very excited. They weren’t hallucinations like those from sickness or stress because I was otherwise normal and calm. To show how upset I was, imagine seeing a funeral or something very stressful. Then, late at night, a clear picture of that scene would suddenly appear in front of my eyes and stay there no matter how hard I tried to make it go away.

Sometimes, the image would even stay in space when I moved my hand through it. If my idea is right, it should be possible to project any picture from someone’s mind onto a screen and actually see it. This would change how people relate to each other completely. I believe this amazing thing can and will happen someday. I have thought about solving this problem a lot.

To stop these troubling images, I tried to focus on other things I had seen, and this sometimes helped for a while. But to feel better, I had to keep thinking of new pictures. Soon, I ran out of images because I had only seen things in my home and nearby. After trying this a few times, the trick stopped working. So, I started to imagine places beyond what I knew. At first, these new scenes were blurry and would disappear when I tried to focus, but over time I made them clearer and more real. I found that the best way to feel better was to keep going further in my mind, seeing new things all the time. So, I began to travel in my imagination. Every night (and sometimes during the day), when I was alone, I would go on mental trips—seeing new places, cities, and countries—living there, meeting people, and making friends. Believe it or not, these friends were just as important and real to me as my real-life friends.

I kept doing this until I was about seventeen, when I started thinking seriously about inventing things.

Then, I was happy to find that I could imagine things very easily. I didn’t need models, drawings, or experiments. I could see everything clearly in my mind. This led me to develop a new way of creating inventions, which is very different from just doing experiments. I think it is much faster and better. When people build a rough version of their idea, they get caught up in fixing small problems. As they keep changing it, they lose focus on the main idea. They might get some results, but the quality suffers.

My way is different. I don’t start building right away. When I get an idea, I build it in my mind first. I change the design, improve it, and even "run" the invention in my head. It doesn’t matter if I imagine testing my turbine or really try it in a workshop. I can even tell if it’s unbalanced. It’s all the same to me—the results match perfectly. This way, I can quickly improve and perfect my idea without touching anything. When I have made every possible improvement and see no flaws, I then build the real thing.

My inventions always work exactly as I imagined. In twenty years, there hasn’t been a single time it failed. Why would it? Engineering, electrical, and mechanical work can be figured out with math and tested in theory before building. Trying to make a rough idea real right away, like most people do, just wastes energy, money, and time.
