These machines, controlled where the operator could see them, were the first simple steps in the development of remote-controlled technology as I imagined it. The next step was to use this technology for machines that could work far away, out of sight, and I have always believed they should be used in war instead of guns. Now, people seem to understand this, judging by news reports about amazing achievements that actually aren’t very new. With today’s wireless technology, it’s possible, though not perfect, to send a plane to follow a rough path and do something many miles away. Such a machine can be controlled in different ways, and I’m sure it could help in war. But as far as I know, there’s no way to do this exactly right yet. I have spent years working on this and have come up with ideas that can make even more amazing things possible.

When I was in college, I thought of a flying machine very different from the ones we have now. The idea was good, but I couldn’t build it because there wasn’t an engine powerful enough. Recently, I solved this problem and am now designing flying machines without wings, ailerons, propellers, or other parts sticking out. These machines will be super fast and might help keep peace in the near future. One such machine, powered only by reaction, is shown on page 108 and could be controlled either by machine or wirelessly. With the right equipment, we could send a missile like this into the air and drop it almost exactly where we want, even if it’s thousands of miles away. But we won’t stop there.

In the future, remote-controlled machines will be made that seem almost smart, and their arrival will cause a big change. Back in 1898, I suggested to a big company that they build and show a car that could drive itself and do many tasks like it had its own judgment. But they thought this idea was crazy back then, so nothing happened.

Right now, many smart people are trying to find ways to stop another terrible war, which isn’t really over even though it’s supposed to be. I predicted how long it would last and its main problems in an article published on December 20, 1914. The new League being planned isn’t a real solution. In fact, some experts think it might make things worse. It’s sad that the peace terms were so harsh because soon countries will be able to fight without armies, ships, or guns, using weapons far more destructive with almost unlimited range. A city could be destroyed from any distance, and no one could stop it. If we want to avoid a disaster that could turn the world into a burning hell, we need to work hard and fast on developing flying machines and wireless energy transmission using all the nation’s power and resources.
