Thinking only about usefulness doesn’t compare to the bigger benefits of civilization. We face serious problems that can’t be fixed just by making sure we have enough stuff to live on. In fact, trying to improve only our material life can be just as risky as problems caused by not having enough.

If we ever figured out how to use atomic energy or found a way to get cheap, unlimited power anywhere in the world, it might not be a good thing. Instead of helping people, it could cause fights and chaos, leading to a world ruled by force and fear. The best progress comes from technology that brings people together and creates peace. My wireless transmitter does exactly that. It can send voices and pictures everywhere, power factories far from waterfalls, fly planes around the world without stopping, and control the sun’s energy to create lakes, rivers, and turn deserts into farmland. Using it for telegraph and phone calls will also get rid of static and other problems that now limit wireless communication.

This is an important topic, so a few words are needed. Over the last ten years, some people have proudly claimed they fixed the problem of static. I looked closely at all their ideas and tested most before they were made public, but none worked. A recent official statement from the U.S. Navy might help some news reporters realize these claims aren’t true. Most of these ideas are based on wrong theories, and when I hear about them, I can’t help but laugh a little. Just recently, someone announced a big new discovery with a lot of noise, but it turned out to be a big letdown.

This reminds me of an exciting event years ago when I was working on high-frequency currents. Steve Brodie had just jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge. Many have copied him since, but the first jump shocked all of New York.

I was easily impressed back then and often talked about the brave printer. One hot afternoon, I wanted a drink and went into a busy bar in the city where a tasty twelve percent drink was served—a drink you can now only find in poor, war-torn parts of Europe. The place was crowded with regular people talking about a topic that gave me a chance to joke: "This is what I said when I jumped off the bridge." As soon as I said it, I felt like a character from a poem who caused chaos. Suddenly, people shouted, "It’s Brodie!" I threw a quarter on the counter and ran for the door, but the crowd chased me, yelling, "Stop, Steve!" Many tried to grab me as I ran to safety.

I dodged around corners and climbed a fire escape to get to my lab. There, I took off my coat, dressed like a blacksmith, and started working. Luckily, I lost the crowd. For years after, late at night when I was scared, I wondered what would have happened if they caught me and found out I wasn’t really Steve Brodie!

Now, an engineer recently told a group of experts about a new way to stop static, saying it’s based on a “new law of nature.” But he was as careless as I was, claiming these disturbances move up and down while signals travel along the earth. That would mean the Earth and its atmosphere could be charged and discharged in a way that goes against basic physics taught in every school book. Even in Benjamin Franklin’s time, this idea would have been rejected because we already knew a lot about electricity from the atmosphere and machines. Obviously, natural and man-made disturbances travel through the earth and air the same way, causing electric forces in both horizontal and vertical directions.
