(8) Cheap clocks that show the exact time without needing any attention will be used everywhere.  
(9) People will be able to send typed or handwritten messages, letters, and checks all around the world.  
(10) There will be a worldwide marine service that helps all ship navigators steer perfectly without a compass, know their exact location, time, and speed, and avoid crashes and accidents.  
(11) A system for printing things all over the world on land and sea will be started.  
(12) Photographs and all kinds of drawings or records will be copied everywhere in the world.  

I also planned to show how power can be sent wirelessly on a small scale to prove it works. Besides these, I mentioned other much bigger uses of my discoveries that I will share later.  

A plant was built on Long Island with a tower 187 feet tall and a big round top about 68 feet wide. This was good enough to send almost any amount of energy. At first, it only sent 200 to 300 kilowatts, but I wanted to use thousands of horsepower later. The transmitter sent special waves, and I created a new way to control any amount of energy by phone.  

The tower was destroyed two years ago, but my projects are still going on, and a better one will be built. I want to clear up a false story that the government destroyed the tower. Some people thought this because of the war, but that’s not true. I still have all my papers that made me an American citizen, and my awards are stored safely. If the government had destroyed the tower, they would have paid me back the money I spent on it. Actually, the government wanted to keep it because it could have helped, for example, find submarines anywhere in the world.  

I have always offered my plants, services, and improvements to the government, and since the European war began, I have been working hard without pay on inventions for flying, ship engines, and wireless power that are very important for the country. People who know about this understand that my ideas have changed American industries a lot, and I don’t know any other inventor who has been as lucky as me, especially with how my work has been used in the war.  

I didn’t talk about this before because I thought it wasn’t right to focus on myself when the whole world was in big trouble.  

Also, I want to say that Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan didn’t work with me for business reasons but helped me like he has helped many other inventors.
