VI. The Art of Telautomatics

Nothing I’ve worked on has demanded so much focus or worn out my brain like the system built on the Magnifying Transmitter. When I was younger, I put all my energy into discovering the rotating field, but that work was different.

Even though it was really hard, it didn’t require the kind of sharp, tiring thinking needed to solve the tricky problems of wireless technology. Back then, I had strong endurance, but my nerves finally gave out, and I completely collapsed just when I was close to finishing the tough job.

If I hadn’t had a kind of safety switch built into me by nature, I might have paid a bigger price later and maybe even ended my career early. This safety switch seems to get better with age and always kicks in when I’m completely worn out. As long as it works, I’m safe from the dangers of overworking that many inventors face. I don’t even need vacations like most people do. When I’m almost done, I just do what some Black folks say they naturally do — fall asleep while others worry. 

I think the body slowly builds up some kind of poison, and then I fall into a deep sleep that lasts about half an hour. When I wake up, it feels like everything before that happened a long time ago, and if I try to keep thinking about it, I get really sick to my mind. So, I switch to different work, and I’m surprised how fresh my mind feels and how easy it is to solve problems that were hard before. After some weeks or months, I get excited again about the invention I left and find answers without much effort.

I want to share a strange experience that might interest psychology students. I had made an amazing effect with my grounded transmitter and was trying to understand its real meaning about currents going through the earth. It seemed impossible, and I worked nonstop for more than a year but got nowhere. This deep study took over me completely, and I forgot everything else, even that I was getting sick. Finally, just as I was about to break down, nature made me fall into a deadly sleep.

When I woke up, I was shocked to find I couldn’t remember anything except my earliest memories from when I was a baby. These showed up very clearly and gave me comfort. Every night, I thought about them and slowly remembered more of my past. My mother’s image was always the main part of these memories, and I really wanted to see her again. This feeling got so strong that I decided to stop working and go to her. But it was too hard to leave the lab, and months went by. I had only brought back memories up to the spring of 1892.

Then, I suddenly remembered myself at the Hotel de la Paix in Paris, waking up from one of my strange sleeping spells caused by too much brain work. I felt pain and sadness when I realized a message was given to me then, telling me my mother was dying. I remembered rushing home without resting and how she died after weeks of suffering. What’s amazing is that during all that time of almost losing my memory, I still remembered everything about my research perfectly. I could recall tiny details, read pages of text, and even say complicated math formulas.

I strongly believe in a law of balance. Real rewards always match the amount of hard work and sacrifices. This is one reason I’m sure the Magnifying Transmitter will be the most important invention I’ve made for future generations. I don’t just think this because of the big changes it will bring to business and industry, but mostly because of the many good things it will make possible for people.
