But the chance was almost gone. I turned my small savings into cash, found a place to stay, and rushed to the train station just as the train was leaving. That’s when I realized my money and tickets were missing.

I didn’t know what to do. While Hercules could take his time to think, I had to decide fast, running next to the train with lots of mixed feelings swirling in my head like a buzzing machine.

In the end, I stayed determined and quick, and after going through the usual annoying problems, I managed to get on the train to New York with my few belongings, some poems and articles I’d written, and some notes about a tough math problem and my flying machine. On the trip, I spent most of my time at the back of the ship, watching for chances to save someone from drowning, without worrying about getting hurt. Later, when I learned more about America, I felt scared to think about how reckless I had been.

I wish I could explain my first thoughts about this country. In stories from Arabia, genies take people to magical lands for amazing adventures. My story was the opposite. The genies had taken me from a dream world to the real one. What I left behind was beautiful, artistic, and exciting; what I saw here was mechanical, rough, and ugly. A big policeman was spinning his stick, which looked huge to me. I asked him nicely for directions. “Six blocks down, then left,” he said, looking angry. I wondered, “Is this really America? It feels like it’s a hundred years behind Europe in civilization.” But when I traveled abroad in 1889, five years after arriving here, I realized America was actually way ahead of Europe, and I still believe that today.

Meeting Edison was a big moment for me. I was amazed by this great man who had done so much without a fancy education or training. I had learned many languages, studied literature and art, and spent my best years reading all kinds of books, from Newton’s science to silly novels, and thought I had wasted my time. But soon I saw that it was the best thing for me. Within weeks, I earned Edison’s trust, and here’s how.

The S.S. Oregon, the fastest passenger ship then, had both of its lighting machines broken, and it couldn’t sail. Since the ship was built around the machines, they couldn’t be taken out. This was a big problem, and Edison was upset. That night, I took my tools and went on board to fix the machines. They had many problems, but with the crew’s help, I got them working again. The next morning, I met Edison on Fifth Avenue as he was going home. “Here’s our Parisian running around at night,” he joked. When I told him I fixed the machines, he was silent and walked away. But after he left, I heard him say, “Batchellor, this is a d-n good man.” From then on, I was free to lead the work.

For almost a year, I worked from 10:30 A.M. to 5 A.M. every day, no exceptions. Edison said, “I’ve had many hard-working helpers, but you’re the hardest.” During this time, I designed 24 new types of machines that replaced the old ones. The manager promised me $50,000 when I finished, but it turned out to be a joke. This shocked me badly, and I quit.

Right after, some people asked me to start a company using my name. I agreed. This was finally my chance to work on the motor, but when I told the group, they said, “No, we want the arc lamp. We don’t care about your alternating current.” In 1886, I finished my arc lighting system, which was used in factories and cities. I was free, but all I had was a fancy stock certificate that wasn’t really worth anything.
