But in the same chapter the judgement in such a case is more expressly attributed to the assembly: “But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator,” etc., “with such a one no not to eat. For what have I to do to judge them that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within?”(Ibid., 5. 11, 12) The sentence therefore by which a man was put out of the Church was pronounced by the Apostle or pastor; but the judgement concerning the merit of the cause was in the Church; that is to say, as the times were before the conversion of kings, and men that had sovereign authority in the Commonwealth, the assembly of the Christians dwelling in the same city; as in Corinth, in the assembly of the Christians of Corinth.
 
 This part of the power of the keys by which men were thrust out from the kingdom of God is that which is called excommunication and to excommunicate is, in the original, ¢posun£gogon poiein, to cast out of the synagogue; that is, out of the place of divine service; a word drawn from the custom of the Jews, to cast out of their synagogues such as they thought in manners or doctrine contagious, as lepers were by the law of Moses separated from the congregation of Israel till such time as they should be by the priest pronounced clean.
 
 The use and effect of excommunication, whilst it was not yet strengthened with the civil power, was no more than that they who were not excommunicate were to avoid the company of them that were. It was not enough to repute them as heathen, that never had been Christians; for with such they might eat and drink, which with excommunicate persons they might not do, as appeareth by the words of St. Paul where he telleth them he had formerly forbidden them to “company with fornicators”;(I Corinthians, 5. 9, 10, etc.) but, because that could not be without going out of the world, he restraineth it to such fornicators and otherwise vicious persons as were of the brethren; “with such a one,” he saith, they ought not to keep company, “no not to eat.” And this is no more than our Saviour saith, “Let him be to thee as a heathen, and as a publican.”(Matthew, 18. 17) For publicans (which signifieth farmers and receivers of the revenue of the Commonwealth) were so hated and detested by the Jews that were to pay it, as that publican and sinner were taken amongst them for the same thing; insomuch as when our Saviour accepted the invitation of Zacchaeus a publican, though it were to convert him, yet it was objected to him as a crime. And therefore, when our Saviour, to heathen, added publican, he did forbid them to eat with a 316/Thomas Hobbes man excommunicate.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
