For a regular person, without permission from the government, to explain the law based on their own ideas is a mistake in politics. But this mistake doesn’t come from Aristotle or any other ancient philosophers.

None of those philosophers say that the power to make laws doesn’t include the power to explain them when needed. And aren’t the Scriptures, where they are law, made law by the government and part of the civil law?

It’s the same when anyone other than the ruler tries to limit a power that the government hasn’t limited. For example, when some say only certain people can preach the gospel, even though the law doesn’t say so. If the state allows me to preach or teach — meaning it doesn’t forbid me — then no one else can stop me. If I am among people who worship idols in America, as a Christian who isn’t officially appointed, should I think it’s wrong to preach about Jesus until I get orders from Rome? Or after preaching, shouldn’t I be able to answer their questions and explain the Scriptures — in other words, teach? Some might say that to do this or to give sacraments, you need official permission, which is true. But it’s also true that if there’s no law against something, you don’t need permission. So stopping people from doing things the government hasn’t forbidden is taking away a legal freedom, which goes against how civil government should work.

More examples of useless philosophy mixed into religion by church scholars could be given, but others can find them on their own if they want. I’ll just add that most writings by these church scholars are just long, confusing chains of strange words, or words used differently than normal Latin. These would confuse even Cicero, Varro, and all the old Roman language experts. If anyone wants to prove this, they can try to translate these church scholars into modern languages like French or English. If most of it doesn’t make sense in these languages, then it doesn’t make sense in Latin either. This confusing language doesn’t just hide the truth, it also makes people think they understand when they don’t, so they stop looking for real answers.
