Leviathan/259 Secondly, for the effect of His word; that is to say, for the thing itself, which by His word is affirmed, commanded, threatened, or promised; as where Joseph is said to have been kept in prison, “till his word was come”;(Psalms, 105. 19) that is, till that was come to pass which he had foretold to Pharoah’s butler concerning his being restored to his office:(Genesis, 11. 13) for there, by his word was come, is meant the thing itself was come to pass. So also, Elijah saith to God, “I have done all these thy words,”(I Kings, 18. 36) instead of “I have done all these things at thy word,” or commandment. And, “Where is the word of the Lord”(Jeremiah, 17. 15) is put for “Where is the evil He threatened.” And, “There shall none of my words be prolonged any more”;(Ezekiel, 12. 28) by words are understood those things which God promised to His people. And in the New Testament, “heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away”;(Matthew, 24. 35) that is, there is nothing that I have promised or foretold that shall not come to pass. And in this sense it is that St. John the Evangelist, and, I think, St.
 
 John only, calleth our Saviour Himself as in the flesh the Word of God, “And the Word was made flesh”;(John, 1. 14) that is to say, the word, or promise, that Christ should come into the world, “who in the beginning was with God”: that is to say, it was in the purpose of God the Father to send God the Son into the world to enlighten men in the way of eternal life; but it was not till then put in execution, and actually incarnate; so that our Saviour is there called the Word, not because he was the promise, but the thing promised. They that taking occasion from this place do commonly call him the Verb of God do but render the text more obscure.
 
 They might as well term him the Noun of God: for as by noun, so also by verb, men understand nothing but a part of speech, a voice, a sound, that neither affirms, nor denies, nor commands, nor promiseth, nor is any substance corporeal or spiritual; and therefore it cannot be said to be either God or man; whereas our Saviour is both. And this Word which St. John in his Gospel saith was with God is, in his first Epistle, called the “Word of life”;(Ibid., 1. 1) and “the Eternal Life, which was with the Father”:(Ibid., 1. 2) so that he can be in no other sense called the Word than in that wherein He is called Eternal Life; that is, he that hath procured us eternal life by his coming in the flesh. So also the Apostle, speaking of Christ clothed in a garment dipped in blood, saith his name is “the Word of God,”(Apocalypse, 19. 13) which is to be understood as if he had said his name had been “He that was come according to the purpose of God from the beginning, and according to 260/Thomas Hobbes His word and promises delivered by the prophets.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
