39) Even though he says spirits exist, he doesn’t deny that spirits have bodies. When St. Paul says, “We shall rise spiritual bodies,” (I Corinthians, 15:44) he agrees that spirits exist, but that they are bodies of a spiritual kind. This is not hard to understand. For example, air and many other things are bodies too, even though they aren’t made of flesh and bone or any solid matter we can see.

When Jesus talks to the devil and tells him to leave a man, if by “devil” we mean a sickness like madness or lunacy, or a physical spirit, wouldn’t that be strange? Can sicknesses hear? Can a physical spirit live inside a body that’s already full of life and natural spirits? So, aren’t there spirits that don’t have bodies and are not just in our imagination? To the first point, I say Jesus talking to madness or lunacy isn’t more strange than Him telling a fever or the wind to stop. Those things can’t hear either, just like when God commands light, the sky, the sun, and stars to be created—they couldn’t hear before they existed. These sayings aren’t strange because they show God’s power. So, it’s not strange that Jesus commands madness or lunacy, which were then often called devils, to leave a person.

To the second point, about spirits not having bodies, I haven’t found any part of the Bible that says anyone was ever controlled by a physical spirit except their own natural spirit that moves their body.

Right after the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus like a dove, St. Matthew says Jesus was “led by the Spirit into the wilderness” (Matthew 4:1), and Luke says the same thing, “Jesus, full of the Holy Ghost, was led by the Spirit into the wilderness” (Luke 4:1). This shows that “Spirit” means the Holy Ghost. This doesn’t mean Jesus was possessed, because Jesus and the Holy Ghost are one and the same, and one substance can’t be possessed by another.

Later, the Bible says Jesus was “taken up by the devil into the holy city, and set on the top of the temple,” but we shouldn’t think this means the devil possessed Him or forced Him there.

Also, when it says Jesus was “carried by the devil to a very high mountain, who showed Him all the kingdoms of the world,” we shouldn’t believe Jesus was possessed or forced by the devil, or that any mountain is really high enough to show the whole world in a literal way.
