God’s kingdom was in Palestine, and the countries around it were controlled by His enemies. So, when the Bible talks about Satan, it means anyone on earth who works against the Church.

Hell’s punishments are described in different ways. Sometimes it talks about “weeping and gnashing of teeth,” like in Matthew 8:12. Other times, it mentions “the worm of conscience,” like in Isaiah 66:24 and Mark 9:44, 46, 48. Sometimes, hell is described as fire, like in the place where “the worm does not die, and the fire is not put out.” It also talks about “shame and contempt,” like in Daniel 12:2, where some people wake up to eternal life and others to shame and disgrace forever. All these images are meant to show how sad and upset people feel when they see others happy forever, but they themselves lost that chance because they didn’t believe or obey.

Because happiness like that can only be understood by comparing it to their own suffering, the wicked will have to go through pain and trouble, like living under cruel rulers. They will also face God, the eternal king of the saints, as their enemy. Among these sufferings is something called the second death.

Even though the Bible says everyone will rise from the dead, it doesn’t promise eternal life to the wicked. St. Paul says our bodies will be raised pure, honored, and powerful (1 Corinthians 15:42-43), but this doesn’t apply to the wicked. The second death means they will die again, unlike normal death, which happens only once. Sometimes people call a terrible life forever “eternal death,” but that’s not the same as the second death.

The fire prepared for the wicked is eternal, meaning the punishment and pain will never stop after the resurrection. The fire and suffering will last forever. But this doesn’t mean the wicked will keep burning and being tortured forever without ever dying. Many Bible verses talk about eternal fire and torment, where people are punished one after another forever, but none say that any person will live forever there. Instead, it says they will have an everlasting death, the second death. After everyone is judged, death and the grave themselves will be thrown into the lake of fire.
