23) It talks clearly about God ruling in Zion and Jerusalem, which means here on earth. It says, “And the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion” (Micah 4:7). This Mount Zion is in Jerusalem, on earth. Also, God says, “As I live, surely with a powerful hand, I will rule over you” (Ezekiel 20:33). He also says, “I will make you follow the covenant” (Ezekiel 20:37). This means God will be king over you and make you keep the promise you made with Him through Moses, which you broke when you chose another king during Samuel’s time.

In the New Testament, the angel Gabriel says about Jesus, “He will be great and called the Son of the Most High. The Lord will give him the throne of his father David, and he will rule over Jacob’s family forever. His kingdom will never end” (Luke 1:32-33). This kingdom is also on earth. Because of this claim, Jesus was treated like an enemy of Caesar and was killed. The sign on his cross said, “Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.” He was mocked with a crown of thorns. When his followers told people about him, they went against Caesar’s rules, saying there was another King, Jesus (Acts 17:7).

So, God’s kingdom is real, not just a symbol, both in the Old and New Testaments. When we pray, “For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory,” we mean God’s kingdom by the promise we made, not just because God always has power. Saying “Thy kingdom come” makes sense because God’s kingdom, promised through Christ, was interrupted when the Israelites rebelled and chose Saul as king. It wouldn’t make sense to say “The kingdom of heaven is near” or to pray for it if the kingdom had never stopped.

There are many other verses that support this idea, but people don’t talk about it much because it would show Christian kings they have the right to rule the church. Some translate “kingdom of priests” as a kingdom ruled by priests, but it could just as easily mean a royal group of priests, like St. Peter said. And calling a special group of people a “precious jewel” is just like a general calling his best soldiers his treasure.
