The Scriptures say that the “spirit of God in man” means a person’s own spirit, which is naturally drawn toward being good. When it talks about someone being “filled with the spirit of wisdom to make garments for Aaron,” it doesn’t mean God put a special spirit in them that can make clothes. Instead, it means they used the wisdom they already had in their own spirit to do that work.

In a similar way, when a person’s spirit causes bad actions, it’s often called an “unclean spirit.” Other spirits are called good or bad when their power is very strong or obvious. The prophets in the Old Testament didn’t claim to be taken over by God, but said God spoke to them through voices, visions, or dreams. When they talked about the “burden of the Lord,” it meant a command from God, not that they were possessed.

So, why did the Jews believe in possession? I think it’s because people usually don’t try hard enough to understand natural causes. They also focus on simple, physical pleasures. When they see someone acting very strangely, unless they understand why, they think it can’t be natural. If it’s not natural, they believe it must be supernatural — that either God or the Devil is controlling that person. This is why when Jesus was surrounded by a crowd, his family thought he was crazy and tried to stop him. The religious leaders said he had Beelzebub (a demon) and that’s how he cast out demons, like a bigger madman controlling smaller ones. Some said, “He has a demon and is mad,” but others who believed he was a prophet said, “These aren’t the words of someone with a demon.” In the Old Testament, when a prophet came to anoint Jehu king, some called the prophet a madman. So, in general, the Jews thought anyone acting very strangely was possessed by a good or bad spirit — except the Sadducees, who didn’t believe in spirits at all, which was almost like not believing in God. This probably made others more likely to say those people were demon-possessed instead of just crazy.

But why did Jesus heal these people as if they were possessed, not just crazy? The only answer I can give is the same kind of answer people give when they argue with the Bible about the earth moving around the sun.
