So, the ninth law of nature is that everyone should see others as equals by nature. If someone thinks they are better than others, that’s pride and breaks this rule.

Because of this, when people agree to live in peace, no one should keep a right for themselves that they wouldn’t want everyone else to have too. To have peace, people have to give up some natural freedoms, like doing whatever they want. But they still need some rights to live, like controlling their own bodies, breathing air, using water, moving around, and other things needed to live well. If someone wants a right for themselves but doesn’t want others to have it, they are breaking the rule about natural equality. People who follow this rule are modest, and those who break it are arrogant. The Greeks called this wanting more than your fair share “pleonexia.”

Also, if someone is trusted to judge between two people, the law of nature says they must be fair to both sides. Without fairness, people will only solve problems by fighting.

If a judge is unfair, they stop people from trusting judges and cause war, which breaks the basic law of nature.

Following this law means giving everyone what they deserve, which is called fairness or distributive justice. Breaking it means favoring some people over others.

Another law says things that can’t be divided should be shared if possible. If there’s enough, everyone should get some; if not, it should be shared fairly based on how many people have rights to it. Otherwise, the sharing is unfair and breaks fairness.

But some things can’t be shared or divided at all. Then, fairness says the full right to it should be given to one person by chance, like a lottery. If that’s not possible, the first person to get it or the oldest child might get it. This is because equal sharing is the law of nature, and there’s no other way to share fairly.

There are two kinds of lots: one that people agree on and one that’s natural. Natural lots can be things like the oldest child getting the right (called primogeniture), or the first person to take something.
