When Moses made the tabernacle, the altar, and the tools for them holy, he put special oil on them that God had told him to use (Exodus 40). This made them holy. There was no magic or spells to get rid of ghosts.

The same Moses, who was the leader of Israel, also made Aaron (the high priest) and his sons holy by washing them with water (just plain water, not magic water), giving them special clothes, and putting oil on them. This was to prepare them simply and respectfully to serve God as priests.

When King Solomon, the leader of Israel, made the temple he built holy, he stood in front of all the people of Israel. He blessed them and thanked God for inspiring his father to build the temple and for helping him finish it. Then he prayed that God would accept the temple, even though it wasn’t as great as God’s greatness, and that God would listen to the prayers of the people there, or even if they prayed toward it from somewhere else. Finally, he offered a peace sacrifice, and the temple was dedicated (II Kings 8). There was no parade, no magic water, and no special words from another time. Just a respectful and meaningful speech that fit the occasion.

We don’t read that St. John made the water of the Jordan River holy, or that Philip did this to the water when he baptized the eunuch. Also, no pastor back then put spit on someone’s nose to baptize them or said “for a sweet smell to the Lord.” This spit ceremony is dirty, and using that Bible phrase this way is silly and can’t be supported by any rule.

To prove that the soul lives forever after the body dies, not only the souls of the chosen people who get special grace and eternal life because Jesus saved them, but also the souls of those who are not saved live on. This is a natural part of being human and doesn’t need any special help from God, just the life God gives to everyone. There are many Bible verses that seem to support this idea at first, but when I compare them to what Job said in chapter fourteen, I think Job’s words are clearer and less confusing.
