This passage isn’t about the word “incarnation” in general, but about God the Son becoming human, which is called the Word because it fulfilled God’s promise. The Holy Spirit is also called the Promise. (Acts 1:4; Luke 24:49)

Sometimes in the Bible, the “Word of God” means words that make sense and are fair, even if they aren’t spoken by a prophet or a holy person. For example, Pharaoh Necho, who worshiped idols, gave advice to King Josiah through messengers, telling him not to fight him at Carchemish. These words are said to come from God’s mouth. Josiah didn’t listen and died in battle (2 Chronicles 35:21-23). In another book, 1 Esdras, it says Jeremiah, not Pharaoh, spoke these words from God. But we trust what the official Bible says, even if the story is different in other books.

“Word of God” can also mean the ideas of reason and fairness written in a person’s heart, like in Psalms 37:31, Jeremiah 31:33, and Deuteronomy 30:11,14.

The word “prophet” means different things in the Bible. Sometimes it means a person who speaks from God to people or from people to God. Sometimes it means someone who predicts the future. Other times, it means someone who speaks in a confused way, like a crazy person. Usually, it means someone who speaks God’s message to the people. Moses, Samuel, Elijah, Isaiah, and Jeremiah were prophets. The high priest was also a prophet because he went into the most holy place to ask God questions and told the people what God said.

When Caiaphas said it was better for one man to die for the people, John says this wasn’t just his own idea. As high priest, he was actually prophesying that one man would die for the nation (John 11:51). Also, in Christian meetings, people who teach others are said to “prophesy” (1 Corinthians 14:3). In the same way, God told Moses that Aaron would be his spokesman to the people, and this spokesman is called a prophet (Exodus 4:16; 7:1). God said, “I have made you like a god to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet.”

Sometimes a prophet speaks from people to God. For example, Abraham is called a prophet when God tells Abimelech in a dream to return Abraham’s wife because Abraham is a prophet and will pray for him (Genesis 20).
