The more experience someone has in any job or activity, the better they are at guessing what will happen in the future. This makes them wiser and more careful than someone who is new at it. No matter how smart or quick a young person thinks they are, they can’t beat someone with lots of experience.

But being wise or careful is not what makes humans different from animals.

Some animals, even when they are just one year old, watch and do what’s best more carefully than a ten-year-old child can.

Wisdom comes from guessing the future based on what has happened before. We can also guess things about the past based on clues we see now. For example, if we know how a country that was doing well ended up in war and then ruined, we can look at another ruined place and guess it went through the same problems. But these guesses about the past or future are never certain because they are only based on experience.

There is no other natural ability in humans that works just by being born and using our five senses. Other skills, which seem to belong only to humans, are learned by studying and practicing. Most people learn these through teaching and training. These skills come from using words and language. Besides sensing and thinking, the human mind doesn’t do anything else on its own. But using language and order, these skills can grow so much that humans become very different from all other living creatures.

Everything we imagine is limited. We can’t picture anything infinite in our minds. No one can imagine something that goes on forever, like endless size, speed, time, strength, or power. When we say something is infinite, it just means we can’t understand how big or how long it is. We only know that we can’t imagine it. That’s why we use the name God—not to help us picture Him (because He is beyond what we can understand), but to respect and honor Him. Also, since everything we think about comes from what we sense, people can’t have thoughts about anything that cannot be sensed.
