And it came to pass, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and did not cease.” By which it is manifest, first, that their prophesying to the people was subservient and subordinate to the prophesying of Moses; for that God took of the spirit of Moses put upon them; so that they prophesied as Moses would have them: otherwise they had not been suffered to prophesy at all. For there was a complaint made against them to Moses;(Numbers, 11. 27) and Joshua would have Moses to have forbidden them; which he did not, but said to Joshua “Be not jealous in my behalf.” Secondly, that the Spirit of God in that place signifieth nothing but the mind and disposition to obey and assist Moses in the administration of the government. For if it were meant they had the substantial Spirit of God; that is, the divine nature, inspired into them, then they had it in no less manner than Christ himself, in whom only the Spirit of God dwelt bodily. It is meant therefore of the gift and grace of God, that guided them to co-operate with Moses, from whom their spirit was derived. And it appeareth that they were such as Moses himself should appoint for elders and officers of the people:(Ibid., 11. 16) for the words are, “Gather unto me seventy men, whom thou knowest to be elders and officers of the people”: where, thou knowest is the same with thou appointest, or hast appointed to be such. For we are told before that Moses, following the counsel of Jethro his father-in-law, did appoint judges and officers over the people such as feared God;(Exodus, 18) and of these were those seventy whom God, by putting upon them Moses’ spirit, inclined to aid Moses in the administration of the kingdom: and in this sense the spirit of God is said presently upon the anointing of David to have come upon David, and left Saul;(I Samuel, 16. 13, 14) God giving His graces to him He chose to govern His people, and taking them away from him He rejected. So that by the spirit is meant inclination to God’s service, and not any supernatural revelation.
 
 God spake also many times by the event of lots, which were ordered by such as He had put in authority over His people. So we read that God manifested by the lots which Saul caused to be drawn the fault that Jonathan had committed in eating a honeycomb, contrary to the oath taken by the people.(I Samuel, 14. 43) And God divided the land of Canaan amongst the Israelites by the “lots that Joshua did cast before the Lord in Shiloh.”(Joshua, 18. 10) In the same manner it seemeth to be Leviathan/267 that God discovered the crime of Achan.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
