(Ibid., 1. 17) Whereby it is manifest that the greater charge, such as is the government of the Church, is a dispensation for the less. The reason therefore why Christian kings use not to baptize is evident, and the same for which at this day there are few baptized by bishops, and by the Pope fewer.
 
 And as concerning imposition of hands, whether it be needful for the authorizing of a king to baptize and consecrate, we may consider thus.
 
 Imposition of hands was a most ancient public ceremony amongst the Jews, by which was designed, and made certain, the person or other thing intended in a man’s prayer, blessing, sacrifice, consecration, condemnation, or other speech. So Jacob, in blessing the children of Joseph, “Laid his right hand on Ephraim the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh the firstborn”;(Genesis, 48. 14) and this he did wittingly (though they were so presented to him by Joseph as he was forced in doing it to stretch out his arms across) to design to whom he whom he intended the greater blessing. So also in the sacrificing of the burnt offering, Aaron is commanded “to lay his hands on the head of the bullock”;(Exodus, 29. 10) and “to lay his hand on the head of the ram.”(Ibid., 29. 15) The same is also said again, Leviticus, 1. 4, and 8.
 
 14. Likewise Moses when he ordained Joshua to be captain of the Israelites, that is, consecrated him to God’s service, “laid his hands upon him, and gave him his charge,” (Numbers, 27. 23) designing and rendering certain who it was they were to obey in war. And in the consecration of the Levites God commanded that “the children of Israel should put their hands the Levites.”(Ibid., 8. 10) And in the condemnation of him that had blasphemed the Lord, God commanded that “all that heard him should lay their hands on his head, and that all the congregation should stone him.”(Leviticus, 24. 14) And why should they only that heard him lay their hands upon him, and not rather a priest, Levite, or other minister of justice, but that none else were able to design and demonstrate to the eyes of the congregation who it was that had blasphemed and ought to die? And to design a man, or any other thing, by the hand to the eye is less subject to mistake than when it is done to the ear by a name.
 
 And so much was this ceremony observed that in blessing the whole congregation at once, which cannot be done by laying on of hands, yet Aaron “did lift up his hand towards the people when he blessed them.”(Leviticus, 9. 22) And we read also of the like ceremony of con- Leviathan/341 secration of temples amongst the heathen, as that the priest laid his hands on some post of the temple, all the while he was uttering the words of consecration.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
