Second, if a law only applies to certain people or just one person, and it’s not written down or announced out loud, it’s still a natural law. We know this law in the same way we understand the situation those people are in compared to others. 

If a law isn’t written or announced by the ruler who makes laws, the only way to know it is by using reason. This means the person who has to follow the law has to think about what makes sense. So, this kind of law is not just about government rules but also about natural rules. 

For example, if the ruler hires a public official but doesn’t give them written instructions, that official must follow what makes sense. Like if someone becomes a judge, they have to make decisions based on what the ruler would see as fair and reasonable. If someone is an ambassador, they should do whatever makes the most sense to help their ruler’s interests when no written orders exist. This idea of following what reason says is called faithfulness, which is part of natural justice.

Besides natural law, all other laws have to be made known to everyone who must obey them. This can happen by speaking, writing, or some other way that clearly shows the law comes from the ruler’s authority. You can’t understand what someone wants unless they say it or show it clearly, or you guess based on what seems fair and reasonable. 

Long ago, before many people could read or write, laws were often put into poems or songs. This helped regular people remember them easily because they liked singing or saying them out loud. That’s why Solomon suggested people keep the Ten Commandments in their minds like they’re written on their fingers (Proverbs 7:3).

Also, when Moses gave the law to the people of Israel, he told them to teach their children by talking about it all the time, at home and on the road, when going to bed and waking up. They were told to write the laws on the doorposts of their houses (Deuteronomy 11:19) and to gather everyone to hear the laws read aloud (Deuteronomy 31:12). 

It’s not enough for laws just to be written or announced; there must also be clear signs that they come from the ruler’s decision.
