I don’t blame Emperor Frederick for helping our countryman Pope Adrian, because back then, his people acted like if he hadn’t done it, he wouldn’t have become emperor. But I do blame those who, at the start when they had all the power, allowed these ideas to be created in their own universities, and have kept helping all the popes since then as they took control over Christian kings and ruled over them and their people however they wanted.

But just like people make up ideas, they can also undo them; it’s the same process, just in reverse. It all started with the first parts of power: wisdom, humility, honesty, and other good qualities like the Apostles had. People listened to them because they respected them, not because they had to. Their minds were free, and they only had to obey the government.

Later, as more people joined the church, the priests met to decide what to teach, and they promised not to teach anything against their group’s rules. Because of this, people thought they had to follow what the priests said, and if they didn’t, the priests would stop being friends with them (called excommunication). This was the first loss of freedom.

As the number of priests grew, the main priests in big cities got power over the smaller local priests and started calling themselves bishops. This was the second loss of freedom. Finally, the bishop of Rome, because Rome was the capital, took power over all other bishops — partly because the emperors wanted it, partly because he was called Pontifex Maximus, and later because of the special rights of St. Peter. This was the third and last loss of freedom and made up the full power of the popes.

So to undo this, you start by undoing the last thing that happened. We saw this in England when the government took back control from the Church. First, Queen Elizabeth ended the pope’s power completely. The bishops who used to work for the pope then worked for the Queen and her successors. Even though they said their power came directly from God, this was the first loss of pope power being undone.
