Also, accusations made because of torture shouldn’t be trusted as real proof. Torture is only used to guess or help figure out the truth. When someone confesses under torture, they do it to make their own pain stop, not to give useful information to the torturers. So, their confession shouldn’t be believed as solid evidence. Whether they tell the truth or lie, they are just trying to save their own life.

Words alone aren’t strong enough to make people keep their promises. There are only two things in human nature that help with this. One is fear of what will happen if they break their word. The other is pride or wanting to look good by keeping their word. The second one is rare, especially in people who want money, power, or pleasure, which is most people. So, the main thing that makes people keep promises is fear. There are two main things people fear: invisible spirits and other people they might offend. Even though spirits are more powerful, people usually fear other people more.

Fear of spirits is part of everyone’s religion and comes from human nature before there were governments. Fear of other people isn’t as strong before society exists because people don’t know who is stronger until after fighting. So, before governments or during war, nothing can make people keep peace promises except fear of the invisible power they call God, who they believe punishes those who lie. When two people aren’t under a government, they can only make each other swear by the God they fear. Swearing, or taking an oath, is adding words to a promise to show that if they don’t keep it, they lose God’s mercy or ask for God’s punishment. For example, ancient people said things like “Let Jupiter kill me if I lie,” and today people say, “I will do this, so help me God.” People also use religious ceremonies to make the fear of breaking promises stronger.

So, an oath made in any way other than the way the person swearing believes in is useless and not really an oath. There is no swearing by anything the person doesn’t think is God.
