9) as also the institution itself, by which no man might enter into the sanctum sanctorum, that is to say, no man might enquire God’s will immediately of God Himself, but only the high priest. The English translation before mentioned, following that of Geneva, has, “a kingdom of priests”; which is either meant of the succession of one high priest after another, or else it accordeth not with St. Peter, nor with the exercise of the high priesthood. For there was never any but the high priest only that was to inform the people of God’s will; nor any convocation of priests ever allowed to enter into the sanctum sanctorum.
 
 Again, the title of a holy nation confirms the same: for holy signifies that which is God’s by special, not by general, right. All the earth, as is said in the text, is God’s; but all the earth is not called holy, but that only which is set apart for his especial service, as was the nation of the Jews.
 
 It is therefore manifest enough by this one place that by the kingdom of God is properly meant a Commonwealth, instituted (by the consent of those which were to be subject thereto) for their civil government and the regulating of their behaviour, not only towards God their king, but also towards one another in point of justice, and towards other nations both in peace and war; which properly was a kingdom wherein God was king, and the high priest was to be, after the death of Moses, his sole viceroy, or lieutenant.
 
 But there be many other places that clearly prove the same. As first when the elders of Israel, grieved with the corruption of the sons of Samuel, demanded a king, Samuel, displeased therewith, prayed unto the Lord; and the Lord answering said unto him, “Hearken unto the voice of the people, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.”(I Samuel, 8. 7) Out of which it is evident that God Himself was then their king; and Samuel did not command the people, but only delivered to them that which God from time to time appointed him.
 
 Again, where Samuel saith to the people, “When ye saw that Nahash, king of the children of Ammon, came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when the Lord your God was your king”:(I Samuel, 12. 12) it is manifest that God was their king, and governed the civil state of their Commonwealth.
 
 And after the Israelites had rejected God, the prophets did foretell His restitution; as, “Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion, and in 254/Thomas Hobbes Jerusalem”;(Isaiah, 24.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
