Leviathan/255 In short, the kingdom of God is a civil kingdom, which consisted first, in the obligation of the people of Israel to those laws which Moses should bring unto them from Mount Sinai; and which afterwards the high priest, for the time being, should deliver to them from before the cherubim in the sanctum sanctorum; and which kingdom having been cast off in the election of Saul, the prophets foretold, should be restored by Christ; and the restoration whereof we daily pray for when we say in the Lord’s Prayer, “Thy kingdom come”; and the right whereof we acknowledge when we add, “For thine is the kingdom, the power, and glory, for ever and ever, Amen”; and the proclaiming whereof was the preaching of the Apostles; and to which men are prepared by the teachers of the Gospel; to embrace which Gospel (that is to say, to promise obedience to God’s government) is to be in the kingdom of grace, because God hath gratis given to such the power to be the subjects (that is, children) of God hereafter when Christ shall come in majesty to judge the world, and actually to govern his own people, which is called the kingdom of glory. If the kingdom of God (called also the kingdom of heaven, from the gloriousness and admirable height of that throne) were not a kingdom which God by His lieutenants or vicars, who deliver His commandments to the people, did exercise on earth, there would not have been so much contention and war about who it is by whom God speaketh to us; neither would many priests have troubled themselves with spiritual jurisdiction, nor any king have denied it them.
 
 Out of this literal interpretation of the kingdom of God ariseth also the true interpretation of the word holy. For it is a word which in God’s kingdom answereth to that which men in their kingdoms use to call public, or the king’s.
 
 The king of any country is the public person, or representative of all his own subjects. And God the king of Israel was the Holy One of Israel.
 
 The nation which is subject to one earthly sovereign is the nation of that sovereign, that is, of the public person. So the Jews, who were God’s nation, were called a holy nation.(Exodus, 19. 6) For by holy is always understood either God Himself or that which is God’s in propriety; as by public is always meant either the person or the Commonwealth itself, or something that is so the Commonwealth’s as no private person can claim any propriety therein.
 
 Therefore the Sabbath (God’s day) is a holy day; the Temple (God’s house), a holy house; sacrifices, tithes, and offerings (God’s tribute), holy duties; priests, prophets, and anointed kings, under Christ (God’s 256/Thomas Hobbes ministers), holy men; the celestial ministering spirits (God’s messengers), holy angels; and the like: and wheresoever the word holy is taken properly, there is still something signified of propriety gotten by consent.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
