When we think or talk using general words and come to a general conclusion that is wrong, it is usually called an error. But actually, it is more like nonsense or something that doesn’t make sense. An error is when we wrongly believe something about the past or future, even though it wasn’t impossible. But if we make a general statement that is not true, it’s hard to even imagine it being possible. Words that don’t mean anything and just sound confusing are called absurd or nonsense. So, if someone talks about a round square, or bread having accidents in cheese, or things like immaterial substances, free subjects, or free will without obstacles, I wouldn’t say they are wrong. I would say their words have no meaning—they are just absurd.

I said before that humans are better than animals because when they think of something, they like to find out what happens next or what they can do with it. Now I add that humans can use words to turn what they find out into general rules, called theorems or sayings. In other words, humans can reason or count not only with numbers but also with other things that can be added or taken away.

But this ability of humans is spoiled by another ability—making absurd statements, which only humans do. And among humans, philosophers are the most likely to do this. Cicero once said that you can find the most ridiculous ideas in the books of philosophers. This is because they don’t start their thinking with clear definitions or explanations of the words they use. Only geometry does this, and because of that, its conclusions can’t be argued with.

The first reason for silly conclusions is that philosophers don’t use a method. They don’t start their thinking with clear definitions, or the exact meanings of words, like knowing the value of numbers one, two, and three before doing math.

Also, since bodies can be thought about in many different ways, which I explained before, mixing up these different ideas and using the wrong words together causes many confusing and wrong statements.
