Again, our Saviour Christ’s commission to his Apostles and Disciples was to proclaim his kingdom, not present, but to come; and to teach all nations, and to baptize them that should believe; and to enter into the houses of them that should receive them; and where they were not received, to shake off the dust of their feet against them; but not to call for fire from heaven to destroy them, nor to compel them to obedience by the sword. In all which there is nothing of power, but of persuasion. He sent them out as sheep unto wolves, not as kings to their subjects. They had not in commission to make laws; but to obey and teach obedience to laws made; and consequently they could not make their writings obligatory canons, without the help of the sovereign civil power.
 
 And therefore the Scripture of the New Testament is there only law where the lawful civil power hath made it so. And there also the king, or sovereign, maketh it a law to himself; by which he subjecteth himself, not to the doctor or Apostle that converted him, but to God Himself, and His Son Jesus Christ, as immediately as did the Apostles themselves.
 
 That which may seem to give the New Testament, in respect of those that have embraced Christian doctrine, the force of laws, in the times and places of persecution, is the decrees they made amongst themselves in their synods. For we read the style of the council of the Apostles, the elders, and the whole Church, in this manner, “It seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things,”(Acts, 15. 28) etc., which is a style that signifieth a power to lay a burden on them that had received their doctrine. Now “to lay a burden on another” seemeth the same as to oblige, and therefore the acts of that council were laws to the then Christians. Nevertheless, they were no more laws than are these other precepts, “Repent”; “Be baptized”; “Keep the Commandments”; “Believe the Gospel”; “Come unto me”; “Sell all that thou hast”; “Give it to the poor”; and “Follow me”; which are not commands, but invitations and callings of men to Christianity, like that of Isaiah, “Ho, every man that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, come, and buy wine and milk without money.”(Isaiah, 55.
 
 1) For first, the Apostles’ power was no other than that of our Saviour, Leviathan/327 to invite men to embrace the kingdom of God; which they themselves acknowledged for a kingdom, not present, but to come; and they that have no kingdom can make no laws.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
