Every time we think carefully about something, we stop when what we’re thinking about is either done or feels impossible to do. Until then, we can still choose to do it or not, depending on what we want or don’t want.

When we decide, the final feeling or urge that sticks with the choice to act or not is what we call the will. The will is the action of wanting, not just the ability to want. Animals that can think about choices must also have a will. Some people say the will is just a "rational" desire, but that’s not quite right. If it were, we couldn’t choose to do something against what makes sense. A voluntary action comes from the will, and nothing else. So, if we say the will is the desire that comes after thinking things through, that fits better. The will is the last desire in deciding. Sometimes people say someone had the will to do something but didn’t actually do it; that’s really just a feeling or wish, not a real choice. Only the final desire before acting makes the action voluntary. If earlier feelings made an action voluntary, then earlier dislikes would make it not voluntary, which doesn’t make sense.

This shows that actions started by wanting something like money, power, or pleasure, as well as actions started by wanting to avoid something bad like fear, are all voluntary.

The way we talk about feelings is sometimes the same and sometimes different from how we talk about thoughts. Usually, we can say feelings clearly, like “I love,” “I fear,” “I am happy,” “I’m thinking,” “I want,” or “I command.” Some feelings have special ways to be said, but they don’t always mean we are stating a fact unless they help us explain something more. When we think about what might happen, we use “if” statements, like “If this happens, then that will happen.” This kind of talk is like reasoning but usually about specific things. When we want or don’t want something, we use commands or requests like “Do this,” or “Don’t do that.” If someone must obey, it’s a command; if not, it’s a request or advice. Feelings like pride, anger, pity, and revenge are expressed by hoping or wishing. When we want to learn something, we ask questions like “What is it?” “When will it happen?” “How is it done?” and “Why?”
