Here’s my answer:

First, people are always trying to be more respected and important than others, which animals don’t do. Because of this, people often feel jealous, hate each other, and sometimes even fight wars, but animals don’t.

Second, for animals, what’s good for the group is the same as what’s good for each individual. They naturally take care of themselves, which also helps the whole group. But people like to compare themselves to others and only enjoy being the best.

Third, animals don’t use reason like humans do, so they don’t think their group’s way of doing things is wrong. But people often believe they know better than others about how to run things, and they try to change it in different ways, which causes confusion and fights.

Fourth, animals can make sounds to show what they want or feel, but they don’t have language like humans do. People can use words to trick others by making bad things seem good or good things seem bad, which causes problems and unrest.

Fifth, animals don’t understand the difference between being hurt and just having damage done, so as long as they’re okay, they don’t get upset with others. But people cause the most trouble when they’re comfortable because that’s when they want to show off their intelligence and control how things are run.

Finally, animals agree naturally without needing rules, but people only agree because they make promises to each other. Because of this, it’s normal that people need more than just promises to keep their agreements strong and lasting. They need a common power to scare them into following the rules and to guide them toward what’s good for everyone.

The only way to create this common power, one that can protect people from enemies and from each other, and help them live happily by working and using the earth’s resources, is to give all their power to one person or a group. This person or group will make decisions that everyone agrees to follow. Everyone accepts that this leader or group acts for the good of all, and they agree to obey their decisions about peace and safety.
