One good thing about having one ruler over everyone is that people like to be in charge. Because of that, it’s likely that the Popes who claimed this power and had it for a long time created the idea that the Church on Earth is really Christ’s kingdom. If that’s true, then Christ must have someone here to tell us what his rules are.

When some Churches stopped accepting the Pope’s total power, you’d think that the kings and queens in those places would take back the control they had given away before. In England, this kind of happened. But the people who helped the kings run the Church acted like they had power from God and didn’t fully listen to the king. They only seemed to take this power because they still admitted the king could stop them anytime.

In places where the Church was run by groups of elders (called presbytery), some Roman Catholic ideas were banned, but they kept the idea that Christ’s kingdom started when Jesus rose from the dead. But why? What did they get out of it? The same thing the Popes wanted—to have control over the people. For example, when people excommunicate (kick out) their lawful king, they stop him from doing religious things in his own kingdom and can even fight him if he tries to fix things. Also, excommunicating people without the king’s permission takes away their freedom, which means those leaders are wrongly controlling others. So, the Roman and Presbyterian Church leaders are the ones causing confusion in religion.

This idea also includes beliefs that help these leaders keep their power once they have it. First, they say the Pope can never be wrong when he speaks officially. If someone believes this, they will obey him no matter what he says.

Second, they say other bishops don’t get their power directly from God or their kings, but from the Pope. This means many important bishops in Christian countries depend on the Pope, who is often from another country. Because of this, the Pope can cause civil wars if a country doesn’t accept his rules and interests.
