And though the name of King be not yet given to God; nor of kingdom to Abraham and his seed, yet the thing is the same; namely, an institution by pact of God’s peculiar sovereignty over the seed of Abraham, which in the renewing of the same covenant by Moses at Mount Sinai is expressly called a peculiar kingdom of God over the Jews: and it is of Abraham, not of Moses, St. Paul saith that he is the father of the faithful;(Romans, 4. 11) that is, of those that are loyal and do not violate their allegiance sworn to God, then by circumcision, and afterwards in the New Covenant by baptism.
 
 This covenant at the foot of Mount Sinai was renewed by Moses where the Lord commandeth Moses to speak to the people in this manner, “If you will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar people to me, for all the earth is mine; and ye shall be unto me a sacerdotal kingdom, and an holy nation.”(Exodus, 19. 5 ) For a “peculiar people,” the vulgar Latin hath, peculium de cunctis populis: the English translation made in the beginning of the reign of King James hath, a “peculiar treasure unto me above all nations”; and the Geneva French, “the most precious jewel of all nations.” But the truest translation is the first, because it is confirmed by St. Paul himself where he saith,(Titus, 2. 14) alluding to that place, that our blessed Saviour “gave Himself for us, that He might purify us to Himself, a peculiar (that is, an extraordinary) people”: for the word is in the Greek perio(cid:218)sioj, which is opposed commonly to the word (cid:153)pio(cid:218)sioj: and as this signifieth ordinary, quotidian, or, as in the Lord’s Prayer, of daily use; so the other signifieth that which is overplus, and stored up, and enjoyed in a special manner; which the Latins call peculium: and this meaning of the place is confirmed by the reason God rendereth of it, which followeth immediately, in that He addeth, “For all the earth is mine,” as if He should say, “All the nations of the world are mine; but it is not so that you are mine, but in a special manner: for they are all mine, by reason of my power; but you shall be mine by your own consent and covenant,” which is an addition to his ordinary title to all nations.
 
 The same is again confirmed in express words in the same text, “Ye shall be to me a sacerdotal kingdom, and an holy nation.” The vulgar Latin hath it, regnum sacerdotale, to which agreeth the translation of Leviathan/253 that place, sacerdotium regale, a regal priesthood;(I Peter, 2.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
