Leviathan/35 The same, with hope of avoiding that hurt by resistence, courage.
 
 Sudden courage, anger.
 
 Constant hope, confidence of ourselves.
 
 Constant despair, diffidence of ourselves.
 
 Anger for great hurt done to another, when we conceive the same to be done by injury, indignation.
 
 Desire of good to another, benevolence, good will, charity. If to man generally, good nature.
 
 Desire of riches, covetousness: a name used always in signification of blame, because men contending for them are displeased with one another’s attaining them; though the desire in itself be to be blamed, or allowed, according to the means by which those riches are sought.
 
 Desire of office, or precedence, ambition: a name used also in the worse sense, for the reason before mentioned.
 
 Desire of things that conduce but a little to our ends, and fear of things that are but of little hindrance, pusillanimity.
 
 Contempt of little helps, and hindrances, magnanimity.
 
 Magnanimity in danger of death, or wounds, valour, fortitude.
 
 Magnanimity in the use of riches, liberality.
 
 Pusillanimity in the same, wretchedness, miserableness, or parsimony, as it is liked, or disliked.
 
 Love of persons for society, kindness.
 
 Love of persons for pleasing the sense only, natural lust.
 
 Love of the same acquired from rumination, that is, imagination of pleasure past, luxury.
 
 Love of one singularly, with desire to be singularly beloved, the passion of love. The same, with fear that the love is not mutual, jealousy.
 
 Desire by doing hurt to another to make him condemn some fact of his own, revengefulness.
 
 Desire to know why, and how, curiosity; such as is in no living creature but man: so that man is distinguished, not only by his reason, but also by this singular passion from other animals; in whom the appetite of food, and other pleasures of sense, by predominance, take away the care of knowing causes; which is a lust of the mind, that by a perseverance of delight in the continual and indefatigable generation of knowledge, exceedeth the short vehemence of any carnal pleasure.
 
 Fear of power invisible, feigned by the mind, or imagined from tales publicly allowed, religion; not allowed, superstition. And when the power 36/Thomas Hobbes imagined is truly such as we imagine, true religion.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
