Another old practice from Gentilism is worshipping images. This wasn’t started by Moses in the Old Testament, nor by Jesus in the New Testament, and it wasn’t brought in from the Gentiles either. Instead, it stayed with them even after they became followers of Christ. Before Jesus taught, most Gentiles believed gods were the pictures or images that their minds created from what their senses saw. These images are called ideas, idols, or phantasms, but they were just copies of real things and had no real existence, kind of like things you see in dreams.

This is why St. Paul said, “We know that an idol is nothing.” He didn’t mean the statue made of metal, stone, or wood was worthless. He meant that what people worshiped or were afraid of in the image was just made up in their minds. It didn’t have a real place or life, only in their brains. Worshipping these images as if they were gods is called idolatry in the Bible, and it is seen as rebelling against God.

God was the King of the Jews, and Moses and the high priests were His representatives. If people were allowed to worship images, which are just made-up ideas, they wouldn’t depend on the true God or His leaders. Instead, everyone would do whatever they wanted, which would ruin their society and destroy them because they wouldn’t be united. That’s why God’s first law was that they should only worship the one true God who spoke to Moses and gave laws to keep them safe and free from enemies. The second law was not to make any images to worship. Worshipping images is like replacing your king with another king, whether that king is from another country or created by yourself.

Some parts of the Bible seem to allow making or worshipping images in God’s holy places. For example, the cherubim over the Ark of God and the bronze serpent. Also, there are texts telling us to honor certain things because they are connected to God, like His footstool. There are also passages that allow showing respect to holy things. But before looking closely at those Bible parts to see if they really support image worship, I need to explain what worship means and what images and idols really are.
