Of the maintenance of our Saviour and his Apostles, we read only they had a purse (which was carried by Judas Iscariot); and that of the Apostles such as were fishermen did sometimes use their trade; and that when our Saviour sent the twelve Apostles to preach, he forbade them to carry gold, and silver, and brass in their purses, “for that the workman is worthy of his hire”:(Matthew, 10. 9, 10) by which it is probable their ordinary maintenance was not unsuitable to their employment; for their employment was “freely to give, because they had freely received”;(Ibid., 10. 8) and their maintenance was the free gift of those that believed the good tiding they carried about of the coming of the Messiah their Saviour. To which we may add that which was contributed out of gratitude by such as our Saviour had healed of diseases; of which are mentioned “certain women which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities; Mary Magdalen, out of whom went seven devils; and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward; and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance.”(Luke, 8. 2, 3) After our Saviour’s ascension, the Christians of every city lived in common upon the money which was made of the sale of their lands and possessions, and laid down at the feet of the Apostles, of good will, not of duty;(Acts, 4. 34, 35) for “whilst the land remained.” saith St. Peter to Ananias, “was it not thine? And after it was sold, was it not in thy power?”(Ibid., 5. 4) Which showeth he needed not have saved his land, nor his money by lying, as not being bound to contribute anything at all unless he had pleased. And as in the time of the Apostles, so also all the time downward, till after Constantine the Great, we shall find that the maintenance of the bishops and pastors of the Christian Church was nothing but the voluntary contribution of them that had embraced their doctrine. There was yet no mention of tithes: but such was in the time of Constantine and his sons the affection of Christians to their pastors, as Ammianus Marcellinus saith, describing the sedition of Damasus and Ursinus about the bishopric, that it was worth their contention, in that the bishops of those times by the liberality of their flock, and especially of matrons, lived splendidly, were carried in coaches, and were sumptuous in their fare and apparel.
 
 But here may some ask whether the pastor were then bound to live upon voluntary contribution, as upon alms, “For who,” saith St. Paul, “goeth to war at his own charges? or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?”(I Corinthians, 9. 7) And again, “Do ye not 336/Thomas Hobbes know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the Temple; and they which wait at the altar partake with the altar”;(Ibid.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
