Lastly, when people try to predict the future, they usually guess based on what happened before or on messages from a divine source. The creators of the religions of ancient non-Jewish people added many strange ways to predict the future. They made people believe they could find out what would happen by listening to confusing or silly answers from priests at famous places like Delphi and Delos. These answers were often unclear on purpose, so they could fit any outcome. Sometimes, the priests were affected by strange gases in caves, which made their answers weird.

Other times, people looked for signs in the leaves of the Sibyls, who were famous prophets. Some of their writings might have been made up later, but they were still popular during the Roman Republic. People also believed madmen, thought to be controlled by a divine spirit called enthusiasm, could predict the future. These predictions were called prophecy.

People also tried to tell the future by looking at the stars when someone was born, which they called horoscopy and was part of astrology. Sometimes, they guessed future events based on their own feelings, called thumomancy. Others believed witches who said they could talk to the dead—this was called necromancy or witchcraft, but it was really just trickery.

Other methods included watching birds’ actions (augury), checking the insides of sacrificed animals (haruspicy), interpreting dreams, listening to birds like ravens, reading faces (metoposcopy), or reading the lines on hands (palmistry). People also thought strange events like eclipses, comets, earthquakes, floods, or unusual births were signs of big disasters to come. Sometimes, they even used random games or lotteries to predict the future. People are very easy to believe these things when others who seem trustworthy explain them, especially when they play on their fears and ignorance.

Because of this, the first leaders and lawmakers among these ancient people wanted to keep everyone obedient and peaceful. So, they made sure that people believed their religious rules didn’t come from them but from gods or spirits. Sometimes, they even pretended to be more than human so that their laws would be accepted more easily. For example, Numa Pompilius said the religious ceremonies he created came from the nymph Egeria. The first king of Peru claimed he and his wife were children of the sun. And Muhammad said he talked with the Holy Ghost, appearing as a dove, to start his new religion.
