If someone’s personal business is being talked about and judged by a group, it’s not unfair if they make as many friends as they can to support them. This is okay because they are not part of that group. Even if they pay these friends with money, it’s not wrong unless there is a law saying it is.

Sometimes, because of how people act, you can’t get justice without money. Everyone thinks their side is right until it is heard and decided.

In any country, if a private person has more servants than they need for their work or property, it’s considered a problem and is against the law. Since the country protects them, they don’t need to have their own private army. In places that are not fully civilized, some big families have fought each other with their own forces. It’s clear they were doing wrong or that those places didn’t have a real government.

Groups that form based on family, religion, or political ideas, like Catholics and Protestants, or rich and poor classes in old Rome and Greece, are wrong because they disturb peace and take power away from the government.

When people gather in groups, it can be good or bad depending on why they meet and how many there are. If they meet for a good reason, like going to church or a public event with a normal number of people, it’s okay. But if there are way too many people and no clear reason, anyone who can’t explain why they are there might be planning something illegal or violent. For example, it’s okay for a thousand people to sign a petition, but only one or two need to actually deliver it. If all thousand show up, it’s seen as a violent crowd because it’s more than needed and hard for the authorities to control.

If a big group gathers to accuse someone, it’s wrong because they can bring their complaint to the judge with just a few people or even one person. A good example is when St. Paul was in Ephesus. Demetrius and many others brought two of Paul’s friends before the judge, shouting “Great is Diana of the Ephesians,” which was their way of asking for justice against them for teaching things that went against their religion and business.
