Jesus said, “Who made me a judge or someone who divides you?” (Luke 12:14) and, “I didn’t come to judge the world, but to save it.” (John 12:47) But even though he said this, Jesus came into the world to be a king and judge in the future world. He was the Messiah, which means the chosen priest and the main prophet of God. This means he had all the power that Moses had, and later the priests and kings had.

St. John clearly says, “The Father doesn’t judge anyone, but has given all judgment to the Son.” (John 5:22) This doesn’t conflict with Jesus saying, “I didn’t come to judge the world,” because that meant he wasn’t judging the world right then, but he would in the future. Also, at Jesus’ second coming, he said, “You who followed me will sit on twelve thrones and judge the twelve tribes of Israel.” (Matthew 19:28)

If Jesus didn’t have a kingdom on earth while he was here, why did he come? He came to bring back God’s kingdom through a new agreement because the old kingdom was lost when the Israelites chose Saul as king. Jesus’ job was to tell people he was the Messiah, the king the prophets talked about, and to offer himself as a sacrifice for the sins of those who believed in him. If the nation as a whole refused him, he would call on the Gentiles (non-Jews) who believed in him.

So, Jesus had two main jobs while on earth: first, to tell people he was the Christ; second, to teach and perform miracles to help people live in a way that made them ready for eternal life when he would return in glory to take over his Father’s kingdom. He often called the time he preached the “regeneration,” which isn’t really a kingdom yet. This didn’t mean people should disobey the rulers then. In fact, he told people to obey those in charge, like the religious leaders and Caesar, and to pay taxes.

The kingdom of God hadn’t fully come yet, but those who believed in Jesus were already part of the kingdom of grace, like citizens of a heavenly kingdom.

So, up to this point, Jesus did nothing to reduce the rights of the Jewish rulers or Caesar.
