And therefore the acts of this council were not laws, but counsels.
 
 The sixth place is that of Romans, 13, “Let every soul be subject to the higher powers, for there is no power but of God”; which is meant, he saith, not only of secular, but also of ecclesiastical princes. To which I answer, first, that there are no ecclesiastical princes but those that are also civil sovereigns, and their principalities exceed not the compass of their civil sovereignty; without those bounds, though they may be received for doctors, they cannot be acknowledged for princes. For if the Apostle had meant we should be subject both to our own princes and also to the Pope, he had taught us a doctrine which Christ himself hath told us is impossible, namely, to serve two masters. And though the Apostle say in another place, “I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath given me”;(II Corinthians, 13. 10) it is not that he challenged a power either to put to death, imprison, banish, whip, or fine any of them, which are punishments; but only to excommunicate, which, without the civil power, is no more but a leaving of their company, and having no more to do with them than with a heathen man or a publican; which in many occasions might be a greater pain to the excommunicant than to the excommunicate.
 
 The seventh place is I Corinthians, 4. 21, “Shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, and the spirit of lenity?” But here again, it is not the power of a magistrate to punish offenders, that is meant by a rod; but only the power of excommunication, which is not in its own nature a punishment, but only a denouncing of punishment, that Christ shall inflict, when he shall be in possession of his kingdom, at the day of judgement. Nor then also shall it be properly a punishment, as upon a subject that hath broken the law; but a revenge, as upon an enemy, or revolter, that denyeth the right of our saviour to the kingdom: and therefore this proveth not the legislative power of any bishop that has not also the civil power.
 
 The eighth place is Timothy, 3. 2, “A bishop must be the husband but of one wife, vigilant, sober,” etc., which he saith was a law. I thought that none could make a law in the Church but the monarch of the Church, St. Peter. But suppose this precept made by the authority of St. Peter; yet I see no reason why to call it a law, rather than an advice, seeing Timothy was not a subject, but a disciple of St. Paul; nor the flock Leviathan/353 under the charge of Timothy, his subjects in the kingdom, but his scholars in the school of Christ.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
