” The third argument is from those places of Scripture by which all the faith required to salvation is declared to be easy. For if an inward assent of the mind to all the doctrines concerning Christian faith now taught, whereof the greatest part are disputed, were necessary to salvation, there would be nothing in the world so hard as to be a Christian.
 
 The thief upon the cross, though repenting, could not have been saved for saying, “Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom”; by which he testified no beliefs of any other article, but this, that Jesus was the King. Nor could it be said, as it is, Matthew, 11. 30, that “Christ’s yoke is easy, and his burden light”: nor that “little children believe in him,” as it is, Matthew, 18. 6. Nor could St. Paul have said (I Cor., 1.
 
 21), “It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching, to save them that believe”:(I Corinthians, 1. 21) nor could St. Paul himself have been saved, much less have been so great a doctor of the Church so suddenly, that never perhaps thought of transubstantiation, nor purgatory, nor many other articles now obtruded.
 
 The fourth argument is taken from places express, and such as receive no controversy of interpretation; as first, John, 5. 39, “Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they that testify of me.” Our Saviour here speaketh of the Scriptures only of the Old Testament; for the Jews at that time could not search the Scriptures of the New Testament, which were not written. But the Old Testament hath nothing of Christ but the marks by which men might know him when he came; as that he should descend from David; be born at Bethlehem, and of a virgin; do great miracles, and the like. Therefore to believe that this Jesus was, he was sufficient to eternal life: but more than sufficient is not necessary; and consequently no other article is required. Again, “Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall not die eternally.”(John, 11. 26) Therefore to believe in Christ is faith sufficient to eternal life; and consequently no more faith than that is necessary.
 
 But to believe in Jesus, and to believe that Jesus is the Christ, is all one, as appeareth in the verses immediately following. For when our Saviour had said to Martha, “Believest thou this?”(Ibid.) she answereth, “Yea, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.”(Ibid., 11. 27) Therefore this article alone is faith sufficient to life eternal, and more than sufficient is not necessary. Thirdly, John, 20. 31, “These things are written that ye might believe, that Jesus 372/Thomas Hobbes is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
