And that he directeth his counsel to his own benefit is manifest enough by the long and vehement urging, or by the artificial giving thereof; which being not required of him, and consequently proceeding from his own occasions, is directed principally to his own benefit, and but accidentally to the good of him that is counselled, or not at all.
 
 Secondly, that the use of exhortation and dehortation lieth only where a man is to speak to a multitude, because when the speech is addressed to one, he may interrupt him and examine his reasons more rigorously than can be done in a multitude; which are too many to enter into dispute and dialogue with him that speaketh indifferently to them all at once.
 
 Thirdly, that they that exhort and dehort, where they are required to give counsel, are corrupt counsellors and, as it were, bribed by their own interest. For though the counsel they give be never so good, yet he that gives it is no more a good counsellor than he that giveth a just sentence for a reward is a just judge. But where a man may lawfully command, as a father in his family, or a leader in an army, his exhortations and dehortations are not only lawful, but also necessary and laudable: but when they are no more counsels, but commands; which when they are for execution of sour labour, sometimes necessity, and always humanity, requireth to be sweetened in the delivery by encouragement, and in the tune and phrase of counsel rather than in harsher language of command.
 
 Examples of the difference between command and counsel we may take from the forms of speech that express them in Holy Scripture. “Have no other Gods but me”; “Make to thyself no graven image”; “Take not God’s name in vain”; “Sanctify the Sabbath”; “Honour thy parents”; “Kill not”; “Steal not,” etc. are commands, because the reason for which we are to obey them is drawn from the will of God our King, whom we are obliged to obey. But these words, “Sell all thou hast; give it to the poor; and follow me,” are counsel, because the reason for which we are to do so is drawn from our own benefit, which is this; that we shall have “treasure in Heaven.” These words, “Go into the village over against you, and you shall find an ass tied, and her colt; loose her, and bring her to me,” are a command; for the reason of their fact is drawn from the will of their master: but these words, “Repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus,” are counsel; because the reason why we should so do tendeth not to any benefit of God Almighty, who shall still be King in Leviathan/159 what manner soever we rebel, but of ourselves, who have no other means of avoiding the punishment hanging over us for our sins.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
