Leviathan/423  

First, people say motion means moving from one place to another. But things without a body, like souls, don’t have a place to move from or to. So, it’s hard to understand how a soul can leave the body and go to heaven, hell, or purgatory. Also, how can ghosts of people (and even the clothes they wore) walk around at night in churches or graveyards? I don’t know how they explain this unless they say ghosts walk in a special way, not like normal walking. But these kinds of strange explanations can be used for any problem, so they don’t really solve anything.  

About eternity, people don’t think it means endless time passing. If it did, they couldn’t explain how God’s will and plans happen before He even knows what will happen, like a cause happening before an effect. Instead, they say eternity is like time standing still all at once, which they call “nunc-stans.” But no one really understands this idea, just like no one would understand the idea of a “hic-stans” (a hiccup that never ends) for an endless space.  

When people think about a body, they imagine it has many parts, and those parts take up many parts of the space around them. So, you can’t think of more or fewer parts of a body than there are parts of the space it fills. But some say, by God’s power, one body can be in many places at the same time, or many bodies can be in one place at once. That sounds like saying something is and isn’t at the same time, which is confusing.  

These are just a few examples of the strange ideas people come up with when they try to argue about God’s nature instead of just admiring how amazing and mysterious He is. God’s qualities don’t really tell us exactly what He is, but they show how much we want to honor Him with the best words we can think of. But when people try to explain God’s nature with these words, they get confused and make more mistakes, like a person who doesn’t know how to behave at a royal court. They might trip, drop their cloak, then their hat, and keep making mistakes because they are nervous and don’t know what to do.
