The third place is John 21:16, where Jesus says, “Feed my sheep.” This isn’t about making laws, but about teaching. Making laws is the job of the head of the family, who chooses his own chaplain and a teacher for his children.

The fourth place, John 20:21, seems to say something different. It says, “As my Father sent me, so send I you.” But Jesus was sent to save people by dying for those who believe in him. He and his Apostles preached to get people ready for his kingdom, which he said is not part of this world. He taught us to pray for it to come someday, but didn’t say when (Acts 1:6-7). When it does come, the twelve Apostles will sit on twelve thrones, maybe as important as St. Peter’s, to judge the twelve tribes of Israel. Since God the Father didn’t send Jesus to make laws for this world, we can understand that Jesus didn’t send St. Peter to make laws here either. Instead, they were sent to help people believe in Jesus’s return and to be faithful. Meanwhile, if people are subjects, they should obey their rulers; if they are rulers, they should believe and help their people believe too. This is the job of a bishop. So, this shows that church leaders should work together with civil rulers, which is the opposite of what Cardinal Bellarmine said.

The fifth place is Acts 15:28, “It seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these necessary things…” Here, the word “burden” is about making laws. But anyone reading this can see that the Apostles are giving advice, not making strict laws. Laws say “we command,” but advice says “we think good.” They give a burden, but it’s conditional—only if people want to follow it. For example, not eating strangled animals or blood isn’t an absolute law, but a rule to help people avoid mistakes. I explained before that laws are made for the benefit of the one making them, but advice is for the benefit of the person receiving it. Here, the Apostles want what’s best for the new believers—their salvation—not for themselves. After they try their best, they get their reward, whether people obey or not.
