Our Savior Christ’s suffering is shown here just like in the story of Isaac being offered, or in other examples from the Old Testament. He was like both the goat that was sacrificed and the goat that took away sins. “He was hurt and treated badly; he didn’t say anything; he was like a lamb being led to be killed, and like a quiet sheep before it’s sheared, he didn’t open his mouth” (Isaiah 53:7) – this is the sacrificed goat. “He carried our pain and sadness” (Isaiah 53:4), and “The Lord put all our wrongs on him” (Isaiah 53:6) – this is the scapegoat. “He was taken away from the living because of the wrongs of my people” (Isaiah 53:8) – again, the sacrificed goat. And “He will bear their sins” (Isaiah 53:11) – again the scapegoat. So, the Lamb of God is like both goats; he was sacrificed because he died, and he escaped by rising again, raised up by his Father and taken away from people when he went to heaven.

Because the one who saves doesn’t own what’s being saved until he pays the price, and this price was his death, it’s clear that our Savior wasn’t king of those he saved before he died. That means while he was alive on earth, he wasn’t king yet. I mean, he wasn’t king right then just because people promised to follow him through baptism. But by making that promise in baptism, people agreed to obey him as king under God the Father whenever he was ready to take the kingdom. Our Savior said, “My kingdom is not from this world” (John 18:36). The Bible talks about two worlds: this one now, which lasts until the day of judgment (also called the last day), and the one after judgment, when there will be a new heaven and earth. Christ’s kingdom won’t start until the general resurrection.

That’s what our Savior means when he says, “The Son of Man will come with the glory of his Father and his angels; then he will reward everyone based on what they’ve done” (Matthew 16:27). Giving rewards based on what people do is the job of a king, and this won’t happen until he comes with his Father’s glory and angels. When our Savior says, “The Scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat; so do whatever they tell you” (Matthew 23:2), he’s saying that right now, the kingly power belongs not to him but to those leaders.
