We are therefore to consider that the Apostle Simon was surnamed Stone (which is the signification of the Syriac word cephas, and of the Greek word petrus). Our Saviour therefore after the confession of that fundamental article, alluding to his name, said (as if it were in English) thus, “Thou art Stone, and upon this Stone I will build my Church”: which is as much as to say, “This article, that I am the Christ, is the foundation of all the faith I require in those that are to be members my Church.” Neither is this allusion to a name an unusual thing in common speech: but it had been a strange and obscure speech, if our Saviour, intending to build his Church on the person of St. Peter, had said, “Thou art a stone, and upon this stone I will build my Church,” when it was so obvious, without ambiguity, to have said, “I will build my Church on thee”; and yet there had been still the same allusion to his name.
 
 And for the following words, “I will give thee the keys of heaven,” etc., it is no more than what our Saviour gave also to all the rest of his Disciples, “Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven.
 
 And whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”(Matthew, 18. 18) But howsoever this be interpreted, there is no doubt but the power here granted belongs to all supreme pastors; such as are all Christian civil sovereigns in their own dominions.
 
 Insomuch as if St. Peter, or our Saviour himself, had converted any of them to believe him and to acknowledge his kingdom; yet because his kingdom is not of this world, he had left the supreme care of converting his subjects to none but him; or else he must have deprived him of the sovereignty to which the right of teaching is inseparably annexed. And thus much in refutation of his first book, wherein he would prove St.
 
 Peter to have been the monarch universal of the Church, that is to say, of all the Christians in the world.
 
 The second book hath two conclusions: one, that St. Peter was Bishop of Rome, and there died; the other, that the Popes of Rome are his successors; both which have been disputed by others. But supposing them true; yet if by Bishop of Rome be understood either the monarch of the Church, or the supreme pastor of it, not Silvester, but Constantine (who was the first Christian emperor) was that bishop; and as Constantine, so all other Christian emperors were of right supreme bishops of the Roman Empire. I say, of the Roman Empire, not of all Christendom, for other Christian sovereigns had the same right in their several territories, as to an office essentially adherent to their sovereignty: which shall serve 346/Thomas Hobbes for answer to his second book.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
