(I Corinthians, 5. 3, 4, 5) But kicking someone out of the church just because they have different opinions on some things, as long as they still believe that Jesus is the Christ, isn’t supported by the Bible or what the Apostles did. 

There is a verse from St. Paul that sounds like it says the opposite: “If someone is a heretic, after warning them once or twice, reject them.” (Ibid., 5. 11, 12) A heretic is someone in the Church who teaches ideas the Church has said are wrong. St. Paul tells Titus to reject that person after warning them, but here “reject” doesn’t mean kicking them out. It means stop arguing with them and leave them alone, hoping they will figure things out on their own.

The same Apostle says, “Avoid foolish and unlearned questions.” (II Timothy, 2. 23) The words “avoid” and “reject” in these verses are the same in the original language, but foolish questions can be ignored without kicking anyone out. And again, “Avoid foolish questions,” (Titus, 3. 9) means the same thing. There is no real Bible verse that supports throwing out faithful believers just because they have some different ideas, especially if those ideas come from a sincere and good conscience.

Instead, all these verses telling pastors to avoid arguments are meant as advice for leaders like Timothy and Titus. They shouldn’t create new Church rules from every little disagreement because that only causes people to feel guilty or breaks the Church’s unity. The Apostles themselves followed this well. For example, even though Peter and Paul had a big disagreement (Galatians, 2. 11), they didn’t kick each other out of the Church. 

But some church leaders didn’t follow this. For example, Diotrephes kicked out people even St. John thought should stay, just because he wanted to be in charge. This shows that pride and selfishness entered the Church very early on. 

To kick someone out of the Church, several things must be true. First, they have to be a member of a real Christian church that has the authority to judge why that person might be kicked out.
