John said, “To those who overcome, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the middle of God’s Paradise.” This was the tree that gave Adam eternal life, but his life was meant to be lived on earth.

This idea is supported again by St. John, who said, “I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared like a bride dressed for her husband.” He also said something similar in verse 10. It’s like he’s saying that when Christ comes again, the new Jerusalem, God’s Paradise, will come down to His people from heaven, not that the people will go up to it from earth.

This is similar to what two men in white clothes (two angels) said to the Apostles as they watched Christ go up: “This same Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come back in the same way you saw him go up.” It sounds like Jesus will come down to rule with His Father here on earth forever, not take people up to rule in heaven. This fits with the idea of God’s kingdom being restored, like the political government Moses set up for the Jews on earth.

Jesus also said that when people rise from the dead, “they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven.” This describes eternal life, which is like the life Adam lost related to marriage. If Adam and Eve had not sinned, they would have lived forever on earth as individuals and wouldn’t have kept having children. If immortals kept having kids like we do, the earth would quickly run out of space.

The Jews who asked Jesus about whose wife a woman would be if she had married many brothers didn’t understand what eternal life means. So Jesus reminded them that in eternal life, there will be no marriage or having children, just like angels don’t marry or have kids.

The comparison between the eternal life Adam lost and the life Jesus won back is also clear here. Adam lost eternal life when he sinned but still lived for a while. In the same way, a faithful Christian gets eternal life through Jesus’ suffering, even though they die naturally and stay dead for a time until the resurrection. Just like death started with Adam’s sin, life starts with being saved through Jesus, not just at resurrection.
