But to show that Christians should not accept kings who don’t believe or have wrong beliefs, he points to a part in Deuteronomy where God tells the Jews not to choose a stranger as their king (Deuteronomy 17). From this, he thinks it’s wrong for Christians to pick a king who isn’t Christian. And it’s true that if someone is a Christian—meaning they have promised to follow Jesus when he comes—they risk a lot if they pick a king who will try to make them break their faith by using fear or pressure.

He also says it’s just as dangerous to pick a king who isn’t Christian and then not get rid of him when he’s in power. But I say the real question isn’t about the danger of not getting rid of him, but whether it’s right to do so. Sometimes it might be wrong to pick such a king, but it’s never right to remove one after they’ve been chosen. Doing that would break a promise and go against natural law, which is God’s eternal law. We don’t see this idea accepted by Christians back when the Apostles lived, or even during the Roman Emperors’ time, until the popes gained control over Rome.

He answers by saying that early Christians didn’t remove bad rulers like Nero, Diocletian, Julian, or Valens, even though some had wrong beliefs, because they didn’t have the power to do it.

Maybe that’s true. But did Jesus, who could have called on twelve legions of powerful angels to help him, need power to get rid of Caesar or Pilate, who unfairly handed him over to be crucified? Or if the Apostles didn’t have the power to remove Nero, why did they still tell new Christians in their letters to obey the rulers, not just because they feared punishment, but because it was the right thing to do? Should we say they obeyed and taught that just because they were weak? No. Christians are supposed to accept their non-Christian rulers, not because they are weak, but because it’s the right thing to do. Also, I don’t think a ruler who supports a wrong teaching can be called a heretic if that teaching is the official one.

About the Pope’s political power, he also says that St. Paul made judges under non-Christian rulers who weren’t chosen by those rulers (1 Corinthians 6), but that’s not true. St. Paul only told Christians to use other believers to help settle arguments instead of going to court with non-Christian judges. This is a good and kind rule that even the best Christian governments should follow.

  
my name is sandeep gautam
