It's natural to use your hands to show something important, so people can see it, rather than just telling them with words, especially in God's public service.

This ceremony wasn’t new during Jesus’ time. For example, Jairus, whose daughter was sick, asked Jesus not just to heal her but to “lay his hands upon her, so she could get better.” (Mark 5:23) Also, people brought little children to Jesus so He could put His hands on them and pray. (Matthew 19:13) 

Following this old tradition, the Apostles and church leaders laid hands on people they chose to be pastors and prayed for them to receive the Holy Spirit. They did this not just once, but sometimes more than once when needed. The purpose was to officially and seriously appoint someone as a pastor or send them on a special mission.

For example, “The Apostles prayed and laid their hands” (Acts 6:6) on seven deacons. This wasn’t to give them the Holy Spirit because they already had it (Acts 6:3), but to appoint them to their job. Later, after Philip the Deacon helped some people in Samaria become Christians, Peter and John “laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.” (Acts 8:17)

Not only Apostles but church leaders also had this power. St. Paul told Timothy, “Do not lay hands on anyone too quickly,” meaning don’t appoint someone as a pastor without careful thought. (1 Timothy 5:22) The whole group of leaders laid hands on Timothy (1 Timothy 4:14), but probably just a few did it officially, maybe including St. Paul himself. 

St. Paul also told Timothy to “stir up the gift of God in you by laying on of my hands,” meaning to encourage his spiritual gifts needed for being a pastor (2 Timothy 1:6). Paul had this laying on of hands happen twice: once when Ananias did it after Paul’s baptism (Acts 9:17-18), and again in Antioch when Paul was sent out to preach (Acts 13:3).

So, the ceremony of laying on hands was used to officially give someone the role and power of being a pastor. But if a Christian already had the power to teach before, baptism alone was enough to make them follow true teaching, so laying on of hands wasn’t needed. Baptism itself was enough.
