After that, people started using the word “conscience” in a different way. They used it to mean knowing their own private thoughts and secrets. So, people say the conscience is like having a thousand witnesses inside you.

Finally, people who really loved their own new ideas, even if those ideas were strange, started calling those ideas their conscience. They acted like it was wrong to change or argue against these ideas, pretending they knew for sure they were right, even though they actually just thought so.

When someone talks without starting with clear definitions, they either start with their own thoughts, which is called an opinion, or they begin by repeating what someone else said. If they trust that person to be honest and smart, then it’s not just about the idea but about the person too. This is called belief or faith: faith means trust in the person, belief means trust in both the person and the idea.

To have faith in someone, trust them, or believe them all mean the same thing—thinking the person is truthful. But to believe what someone says only means trusting the idea itself. We should notice that the phrase “I believe in” (and the Latin “credo in” and Greek “pistéuo eis”) is mostly used by religious writers. Other writers say things like “I believe him” or “I trust him,” which mean trusting the person. This special religious use has caused many arguments about what Christian faith really means.

But when Christians say “believe in” in the Creed, they don’t just mean trust the person, they mean accepting and agreeing with the teaching. Not only Christians, but all people believe in God by accepting everything He says as true, whether they understand it or not. That’s the kind of faith and trust anyone can have in anyone else. But not everyone believes the teachings in the Creed.

So, when we believe something is true because of good reasons, not because of the thing itself or natural reason, but because we trust the person who said it, then the person we trust is the main focus of our faith. The respect we show by believing is given to that person alone.

my name is sandeep gautam
