Our Saviour Christ’s sufferings seem to be here figured as clearly as in the oblation of Isaac, or in any other type of him in the Old Testament. He was both the sacrificed goat and the scapegoat: “He was oppressed, and he was afflicted; he opened not his mouth; he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep is dumb before the shearer, so opened he not his mouth”:( Isaiah, 53. 7) here is the sacrificed goat. “He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows”;(Ibid., 53. 4) and again, “the Lord hath laid upon him the iniquities of us all”:(Ibid., 53. 6) and so he is the scapegoat. “He was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people”:(Ibid., 53. 8) there again he is the sacrificed goat. And again, “he shall bear their sins”:(Ibid., 53. 11) he is the scapegoat. Thus is the Lamb of God equivalent to both those goats; sacrificed, in that he died; and escaping, in his resurrection; being raised opportunely by his Father, and removed from the habitation of men in his ascension.
 
 For as much therefore as he that redeemeth hath no title to the thing redeemed, before the redemption and ransom paid, and this ransom was the death of the redeemer, it is manifest that our Saviour, as man, was not king of those that he redeemed, before he suffered death; that is, during that time he conversed bodily on the earth. I say he was not then king in present, by virtue of the pact which the faithful make with him in baptism: nevertheless, by the renewing of their pact with God in baptism, they were obliged to obey him for king, under his Father, whensoever he should be pleased to take the kingdom upon him. According whereunto, our Saviour himself expressly saith, “My kingdom is not of this world.”(John, 18. 36) Now seeing the Scripture maketh mention but of two worlds; this that is now, and shall remain to the day of judgement, which is therefore also called the last day; and that which shall be after the day of judgement, when there shall be a new heaven and a new earth; the kingdom of Christ is not to begin till the general resurrection.
 
 And that is it which our Saviour saith, “The Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father, with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.”(Matthew, 16. 27) To reward every man according to his works is to execute the office of a king; and this is not to be till he come in the glory of his Father, with his angels. When our Saviour saith, “The Scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat; all therefore whatsoever they bid you do, that observe and do”;(Ibid., 23. 2) he declareth plainly that he ascribeth kingly power, for that time, not to Leviathan/301 himself, but to them.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
