(Numbers, 11. 25 ) The Scriptures by the Spirit of God in man mean a man’s spirit, inclined to godliness. And where it is said, “Whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom to make garments for Aaron,”(Exodus, 28. 3) is not meant a spirit put into them, that can make garments, but the wisdom of their own spirits in that kind of work.
 
 In the like sense, the spirit of man, when it produceth unclean actions, is ordinarily called an unclean spirit; and so other spirits, though not always, yet as often as the virtue or vice, so styled, is extraordinary and eminent. Neither did the other prophets of the Old Testament pretend enthusiasm, or that God spoke in them, but to them, by voice, vision, or dream; and the “burden of the Lord” was not possession, but command.
 
 How then could the Jews fall into this opinion of possession? I can imagine no reason but that which is common to all men; namely, the want of curiosity to search natural causes; and their placing felicity in the acquisition of the gross pleasures of the senses, and the things that most immediately conduce thereto. For they that see any strange and unusual ability or defect in a man’s mind, unless they see withal from what cause it may probably proceed, can hardly think it natural; and if not natural, they must needs think it supernatural; and then what can it be, but that either God or the Devil is in him? And hence it came to pass, when our Saviour was compassed about with the multitude, those of the house doubted he was mad, and went out to hold him: but the Scribes said he had Beelzebub, and that was it, by which he cast out devils; as if the greater madman had awed the lesser.(Mark, 3. 21) And that some said, “He hath a devil, and is mad”; whereas others, holding him for a prophet, said, “These are not the words of one that hath a devil.”(John, 10. 20) So in the Old Testament he that came to anoint Jehu was a Prophet; but some of the company asked Jehu, “What came that madman for?”(II Kings, 9. 11) So that, in sum, it is manifest that whosoever behaved himself in extraordinary manner was thought by the Jews to be possessed either with a good or evil spirit; except by the Sadducees, who erred so far on the other hand as not to believe there were at all any spirits, which is very near to direct atheism; and thereby perhaps the more provoked others to term such men demoniacs rather than madmen.
 
 But why then does our Saviour proceed in the curing of them, as if they were possessed, and not as it they were mad? To which I can give no other kind of answer but that which is given to those that urge the Scripture in like manner against the opinion of the motion of the earth.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
