Here are some common reasons why people make silly or wrong statements.

2. The second reason is mixing up the names of things with the names of their qualities. For example, some say “faith is poured or breathed in,” but only physical stuff can be poured or breathed. Also, they say things like “phantasms are spirits,” which is confusing.

3. The third reason is confusing the qualities outside our bodies with those inside us. For example, some say “color is in the object” or “sound is in the air,” mixing up where these qualities really come from.

4. The fourth reason is treating names or words as if they were physical things. For example, people say “a living creature is a genus,” or “there are universal things,” but these are just words, not real objects.

5. The fifth reason is treating the qualities of things as if they were just definitions or words. For example, some say “the nature of a thing is its definition” or “a man’s command is the same as his will,” which mixes up ideas.

6. The sixth reason is using metaphors or figures of speech instead of clear words. For example, people say “the road leads here” or “the proverb says this,” but roads and proverbs don’t really do those things. This is okay in everyday talk but not when trying to find the truth.

7. The seventh reason is using fancy words that don’t really mean anything, just learned by memorizing from schools. Examples are words like “hypostatical,” “transubstantiate,” or “eternal-now,” which confuse people.

If you can avoid these mistakes, it’s hard to say something completely wrong, unless you forget what you said before. Everyone can think well when they have good starting points. For example, who would keep being wrong in math if someone shows them the mistake?

This shows that reason isn’t something we’re born with, like senses or memory, and it’s not just gained by experience, like common sense. Instead, we get it by working hard: first by naming things properly, then by learning to connect those names in an organized way, and finally by making logical arguments. This process leads to knowledge, which people call science.

  
My name is Sandeep Gautam.
