Honourable is whatsoever possession, action, or quality is an argument and sign of power.
 
 And therefore to be honoured, loved, or feared of many is honourable, as arguments of power. To be honoured of few or none, dishonourable.
 
 Dominion and victory is honourable because acquired by power; and servitude, for need or fear, is dishonourable.
 
 Good fortune, if lasting, honourable; as a sign of the favour of God.
 
 Ill and losses, dishonourable. Riches are honourable, for they are power.
 
 Poverty, dishonourable. Magnanimity, liberality, hope, courage, confidence, are honourable; for they proceed from the conscience of power.
 
 Pusillanimity, parsimony, fear, diffidence, are dishonourable.
 
 Timely resolution, or determination of what a man is to do, is honourable, as being the contempt of small difficulties and dangers.
 
 And irresolution, dishonourable, as a sign of too much valuing of little impediments and little advantages: for when a man has weighed things as long as the time permits, and resolves not, the difference of weight is but little; and therefore if he resolve not, he overvalues little things, which is pusillanimity.
 
 All actions and speeches that proceed, or seem to proceed, from much experience, science, discretion, or wit are honourable; for all these are powers. Actions or words that proceed from error, ignorance, or folly, dishonourable.
 
 Gravity, as far forth as it seems to proceed from a mind employed on something else, is honourable; because employment is a sign of power.
 
 But if it seem to proceed from a purpose to appear grave, it is dishonourable. For the gravity of the former is like the steadiness of a ship laden with merchandise; but of the like the steadiness of a ship ballasted with sand and other trash.
 
 To be conspicuous, that is to say, to be known, for wealth, office, great actions, or any eminent good is honourable; as a sign of the power for which he is conspicuous. On the contrary, obscurity is dishonourable.
 
 To be descended from conspicuous parents is honourable; because they the more easily attain the aids and friends of their ancestors. On the contrary, to be descended from obscure parentage is dishonourable.
 
 Actions proceeding from equity, joined with loss, are honourable; as signs of magnanimity: for magnanimity is a sign of power. On the contrary, craft, shifting, neglect of equity, is dishonourable.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
