Peter, the Bishop of Rome, is often mentioned, but this is just an idea some people believe and others question. The first time we know the Bible was officially recommended to Christian churches was at the Council of Laodicea, held in the year 364 after Christ. 

At that time, church leaders acted like they were more important than emperors. They saw Christian emperors not as leaders but as followers, and non-Christian emperors as enemies. They tried to make their teachings into strict laws, not just advice, and thought it was okay to trick people if it made them follow Christian beliefs more closely. 

Even so, I believe they didn’t change the Bible on purpose. The copies of the New Testament were only with church leaders, but if they wanted to lie, they would have made the Bible more about their power over kings and governments. So, I think the Old and New Testaments we have now are true records of what the prophets and apostles said and did. Some books called Apocrypha might be true too, but they aren’t in the official Bible because they weren’t originally written in Hebrew. After Alexander the Great conquered Asia, many Jews knew Greek well. The seventy translators who made the Greek Bible were all Jewish. We also have Greek writings by Jewish authors like Philo and Josephus. But it’s the Church’s authority that decides which books are official.

Even though different people wrote these books, it’s clear they were all guided by the same spirit. They all work toward the same goal: showing the kingdom of God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The book of Genesis traces the family of God’s people from the world’s creation to when they went to Egypt. The next four books of Moses show God choosing His people and giving them laws. Books like Joshua, Judges, Ruth, and Samuel tell what happened until the people asked for a king like other nations. The rest of the Old Testament follows the line of King David until the Captivity. From this line came the Savior, Jesus, who was predicted by the prophets. The Gospels tell about His life and His right to God’s kingdom while He was alive. Finally, the Acts and letters from the Apostles talk about the coming of the Holy Spirit and the power given to them and their followers to guide both Jews and non-Jews.
