When I think about it, I realize that in dreams, I don’t often or always think about the same people, places, things, or actions that I do when I’m awake. Also, I don’t remember long, clear thoughts in dreams like I do when I’m awake. When I’m awake, I often notice how silly dreams are, but I never dream about how silly my waking thoughts are. So, I’m sure that when I’m awake, I’m not dreaming—even though when I dream, I believe I’m awake.

Dreams happen because some parts inside our body aren’t feeling right. Different problems inside the body cause different dreams. For example, when you lie down cold, you might have scary dreams because coldness sends signals between your brain and other parts of your body. Just like being angry heats parts of your body when you’re awake, when you sleep, heat in those parts can make you imagine an enemy in your dream.

Similarly, when we feel kindness or want something while awake, it causes heat in other parts of our body. If those parts get too hot during sleep, the brain creates dreams about kindness. So, dreams are kind of the opposite of what we think about when awake—the signals start in different places.

It’s hardest to tell if you’re dreaming or awake when you don’t notice you’ve fallen asleep. This can easily happen if you’re full of scary thoughts or your conscience is bothering you, especially if you fall asleep sitting up, like nodding off in a chair. But if you try hard to fall asleep, and weird or strange thoughts come to you, you usually realize it’s a dream.

There’s a story about Marcus Brutus, who was given his life by Julius Caesar but still killed him. The night before a big battle, Brutus saw a scary vision. Historians call it a vision, but it was probably just a short dream. Sitting in his tent, worried and cold, it was easy for him to dream about what scared him most. As he slowly woke up, the scary image disappeared. Since he wasn’t sure he had been asleep, he thought it was a real vision, not a dream.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
