What is baptism? It means going into water. But what does it mean to dip someone into water in the name of something? The meaning of baptism is this: The person who is baptized is dipped or washed as a sign of becoming a new person and a loyal follower of God. This God was shown long ago by Moses and the high priests when He ruled over the Jewish people. It also means following Jesus Christ, God and Man, who saved us and will represent God in His eternal kingdom after rising from the dead. It means agreeing to follow the teachings of the Apostles, who were helped by the Spirit of God to guide us to God’s kingdom, which is the only sure way to get there.

This is the promise we make in baptism. The power of kings and governments on earth will last until the day of judgment. St. Paul says, “Just as everyone dies because of Adam, so everyone will be made alive because of Christ. But each in their own order: Christ first, then those who belong to Him when He comes; then the end, when He gives the kingdom back to God the Father after putting down all rule, authority, and power.” So, baptism does not make another authority over us to control what we do in life. Instead, it means we promise to follow the Apostles’ teachings as our guide to eternal life.

The power to forgive or keep sins, sometimes called the power of loosing and binding or the keys to the kingdom of heaven, comes from the authority to baptize or refuse baptism. Baptism is the way people join God’s kingdom, which means eternal life and forgiveness of sins. Eternal life was lost when people sinned, but it is restored when sins are forgiven. The purpose of baptism is to forgive sins. That’s why St. Peter told people who believed his sermon on Pentecost to “repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus for the forgiveness of sins.” Since baptizing means accepting people into God’s kingdom, and refusing baptism means excluding them, the power to accept or reject people was given to the Apostles and their followers. After Jesus breathed on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit,” He added, “Whose sins you forgive, they are forgiven; whose sins you do not forgive, they are not forgiven.”
