There is another part of the Bible that seems to agree with this idea. St. Paul says, “What will people do who are baptized for the dead, if the dead don’t come back to life? Why are they baptized for the dead?” (1 Corinthians 15:29). Some people think this means that back then, people were baptized on behalf of their dead friends. This was like promising that their friends would be ready to accept Jesus when he comes again. This would mean there is no need for purgatory to forgive sins after death.

But these ideas are a bit confusing and strange. So, I don’t fully trust them. I leave it to people who know the Bible well to decide if there is a clearer explanation that says otherwise.

What I do see clearly in the Bible is that there is no mention of purgatory, either in words or meaning. There is nothing that proves we need a place for souls without bodies. Not for Lazarus when he was dead for four days, and not for the souls that the Roman Church says are suffering in purgatory now. God, who can give life to a piece of clay, can also bring a dead person back to life and give them a new, glorious, spiritual, and immortal body.

Another part is 1 Corinthians 3, where it says that if people build with weak materials like hay or straw on the true foundation, their work will be destroyed. But “they themselves will be saved, but only as if through fire.” Some people say this fire means purgatory. But these words refer to Zechariah 13:9, where it talks about God refining people like silver and gold through fire during the coming of the Messiah. This means at the day of judgment, the world will be destroyed by fire, but the chosen ones won’t be burned up. Instead, their wrong ideas and traditions will be burned away, like getting rid of mistakes, and then they will call on the true God.

Similarly, the Apostle says that those who believe Jesus is the Christ but also follow wrong teachings will not be destroyed in this fire when the world is renewed. Instead, they will go through it and be saved, but they will realize and give up their wrong ideas.
