This appearance wasn’t just something imagined, but a voice. This shows that an angel means nothing more than God Himself, who made Hagar hear a supernatural voice from heaven. Or, it was just a supernatural voice showing God was there.

So why can’t the angels that appeared to Lot, and were called men, be understood as images of men made in the imagination? Lot talked to them as if they were one person, and even called one of them “my Lord.” Just like before, when an angel was a voice in the imagination, these angels could be imagined men.

When the angel called Abraham from heaven to stop him from killing Isaac, it wasn’t a real figure but a voice. Still, this voice was rightly called a messenger or angel of God because it showed God’s will in a supernatural way. This means we don’t have to think there were actual ghosts.

The angels Jacob saw on the ladder to heaven were a vision in his sleep. So, it was just a dream or imagination, but a supernatural one that showed God was there. That’s why these visions are also called angels.

The same goes when Jacob said, “The angel of the Lord appeared to me in my sleep.” An appearance in sleep is just a dream, whether normal or supernatural. The angel there was God Himself because that angel said, “I am the God of Bethel.”

Also, the angel that led the army of Israel to the Red Sea was the Lord Himself. He didn’t look like a man but appeared as a “pillar of cloud” by day and a “pillar of fire” by night. This pillar was the angel or sign promised to Moses to guide the army.

You see, things like moving and talking, usually thought to be done by angels, were done by a cloud here. The cloud was a sign of God’s presence and was just as much an angel as if it looked like a beautiful man or child with wings, as people often imagine. It’s not the shape that makes something an angel, but its purpose.

Their purpose is to show God’s presence in supernatural events. For example, when Moses asked God to go with the camp as He always had before the golden calf was made, God didn’t say, “I will go,” or “I will send an angel instead.” God said, “My presence shall go with you.”
