And first there are the words of Solomon, “Then shall the dust return to dust, as it was, and the spirit shall return to God that gave it.”(Ecclesiastes, 12. 7) Which may bear well enough (if there be no other text directly against it) this interpretation, that God only knows, but man not, what becomes of a man’s spirit when he expireth; and the same Solomon, in the same book, delivereth the same sentence in the sense I have given it. His words are, “All go to the same place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again; who knoweth that the spirit of man goeth upward, and that the spirit of the beast goeth downward to the earth?”(Ibid., 3. 20, 21) That is, none knows but God; nor is it an unusual phrase to say of things we understand not, “God knows what,” and “God knows where.” That of Genesis, 5. 24, “Enoch walked with God, and he was not; for God took him”; which is expounded, Hebrews, 11. 5, “He was translated, that he should not die; and was not found, because God had translated him. For before his translation, he had this testimony, that he pleased God,” making as much for the immortality of the body as of the soul, proveth that this his translation was peculiar to them that please God; not common to them with the wicked; and depending on grace, not on nature. But on the contrary, what interpretation shall we give, besides the literal sense of the words of Solomon, “That which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts, even one thing befalleth them; as the one dieth, so doth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no pre-eminence above a beast, for all is vanity.”(Ibid., 3. 19) By the literal sense, here is no natural immortality of the soul; nor yet any repugnancy with the life eternal, which the elect shall enjoy by grace. And, “Better is he that hath not yet been than both they”;(Ibid., 4. 3) that is, than they that live or have lived; which, if the soul of all them that have lived were immortal, were a hard saying; for then to have an immortal soul were worse than to have no soul at all.
 
 And again, “The living know they shall die, but the dead know not anything”;(Ibid., 9. 5) that is, naturally, and before the resurrection of the body.
 
 Another place which seems to make for a natural immortality of the soul is that where our Saviour saith that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are Leviathan/391 living: but this is spoken of the promise of God, and of their certitude to rise again, not of a life then actual; and in the same sense that God said to Adam that on the day he should eat of the forbidden fruit, he should certainly die; from that time forward he was a dead man by sentence; but not by execution, till almost a thousand years after.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
