28) where again, the word prophesy is expounded by dream and vision. And in the same manner it was that God spake to Solomon, promising him wisdom, riches, and honour; for the text saith, “And Solomon awoke, and behold it was a dream”:(I Kings, 3. 15) so that generally the prophets extraordinary in the Old Testament took notice of the word of God no otherwise than from their dreams or visions that is to say, from the imaginations which they had in their sleep or in an ecstasy: which imaginations in every true prophet were supernatural, but in false prophets were either natural or feigned.
 
 The same prophets were nevertheless said to speak by the spirit; as where the prophet, speaking of the Jews, saith, “They made their hearts hard as adamant, lest they should hear the law, and the words which the Lord of Hosts hath sent in His Spirit by the former prophets.”(Zechariah, 7. 12) By which it is manifest that speaking by the spirit or inspiration was not a particular manner of God’s speaking, different from vision, when they that were said to speak by the Spirit were extraordinary prophets, such as for every new message were to have a particular commission or, which is all one, a new dream or vision.
 
 Of prophets that were so by a perpetual calling in the Old Testament, some were supreme and some subordinate: supreme were first Moses, and after him the high priests, every one for his time, as long the priesthood was royal; and after the people of the Jews had rejected God, that He should no more reign over them, those kings which submitted themselves to God’s government were also his chief prophets; and the high priest’s office became ministerial. And when God was to be consulted, they put on the holy vestments, and enquired of the Lord as the king commanded them, and were deprived of their office when the king thought fit. For King Saul commanded the burnt offering to be brought;(I Samuel, 13. 9) and he commands the priest to bring the Ark near him;(Ibid., 14. 18) and, again, to let it alone, because he saw an advantage upon his enemies.(Ibid., 14. 19) And in the same chapter Saul asketh counsel of God. In like manner King David, after his being anointed, though before he had possession of the kingdom, is said to “enquire of the Lord” whether he should fight against the Philistines at Keilah;(Ibid., 23. 2) and David commandeth the priest to bring him the ephod, to enquire whether he should stay in Keilah or not.(Ibid., 23. 9) And King Solomon took the priesthood from Abiathar,(I Kings, 2. 27) and gave it to Zadok.(Ibid., 2. 35) Therefore Moses, and the high priests, and the Leviathan/265 pious kings, who enquired of God on all extraordinary occasions how they were to carry themselves, or what event they were to have, were all sovereign prophets.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
