Here’s my answer.

First, people are always trying to be more respected and important than others, but these creatures don’t do that. Because of this, people often feel jealous, hate each other, and sometimes even fight wars. But these creatures don’t have those problems.

Second, for these creatures, what’s good for everyone is the same as what’s good for each one of them. They naturally focus on themselves but end up helping everyone. People, on the other hand, like to compare themselves to others and only care about being the best.

Third, these creatures don’t use reason like humans do, so they don’t think there’s anything wrong with how they live together. But many people believe they know better than others about how to run things. They fight over new ideas, which leads to confusion and even civil war.

Fourth, these creatures can make sounds to show what they want or feel, but they don’t have words like humans do. People can use words to trick others by making bad things seem good or good things seem bad, which causes problems and messes up peace.

Fifth, these creatures can’t tell the difference between being hurt on purpose and just getting hurt accidentally. So, as long as they’re fine, they don’t get angry at each other. But humans are most annoying when they’re comfortable because then they like to show off how smart they are and try to control those in charge.

Finally, these creatures naturally get along, but humans only agree to live together because of a promise or agreement, which is made by choice. So, it makes sense that humans need more than just promises to stay peaceful. They need a strong power that everyone respects to keep things under control and work for the good of all.

The best way to create this strong power, which can protect people from outsiders and from each other, and help them live happily by working and using what the earth gives, is to give all their power to one person or group. This person or group will make decisions based on the majority’s choice. Everyone agrees that this person or group represents them, and they accept all the decisions made for peace and safety. They all promise to follow that person’s or group’s will and judgment.
