If by "all together," they don’t mean the group acting as one person, then "all together" and "every one" mean the same thing, which makes no sense. But if by "all together," they mean the group acting as one person (which is what the sovereign is), then the power of "all together" is the same as the sovereign’s power. That also doesn’t make sense. People see this clearly when the power is held by a group of people, but not when it’s held by a king or queen. Still, the power is the same no matter who has it.

The power and honor of the sovereign should be greater than that of any or all the people. The source of honor comes from the sovereign. Titles like lord, earl, duke, and prince depend on the sovereign. Just like servants have no honor in front of their master, subjects have no honor in front of the sovereign. Even if some look more important than others when the sovereign isn’t watching, in the sovereign’s presence, they all shine less than stars do compared to the sun.

Someone might say that subjects have a hard life because those in power might act selfishly or badly. Usually, people living under a king blame the monarchy, and people living under a democracy blame that system. But no matter the government, if it works well to protect people, the power is the same. People don’t realize that life will always have problems. The worst thing that can happen in any government is barely as bad as the chaos and suffering that happens during a civil war or when there are no laws, and people act wild and violent.

Also, harsh rulers don’t hurt their people because they want to gain from it. They actually depend on their people’s strength and glory. But sometimes, because people don’t want to help defend themselves, rulers have to take more from them during peaceful times to prepare for emergencies or attacks. People naturally focus on their feelings and think small payments or sacrifices are a big problem. But they don’t often think about the bigger problems those payments help avoid, like disasters or wars.
