But the king, and every other ruler, does his job as the top leader by getting his power directly from God. This means they rule because God gave them the right. That’s why only kings can say in their titles that they are rulers by God’s grace, like “Dei gratia Rex” (which means “King by the grace of God”). Bishops should say at the start of their orders, “By the favor of the King’s Majesty, Bishop of this area,” or as government workers, “In His Majesty’s name.” If they say “Divina providentia” (which also means by God’s grace), they are pretending their power comes from God alone and not from the government. This is sneaky because it ignores their duty to the state and hurts the unity and protection of the country.

If every Christian ruler is the top religious leader for their people, it seems like they should also have the power not just to preach, but to baptize, give Communion, and bless churches and pastors. Most people don’t agree with this because kings usually don’t do those things, and because these religious acts usually need to be done by people who were chosen and blessed to do them, going back to the time of the Apostles. To prove kings can baptize and bless, I need to explain why they usually don’t and how they can do it without the usual ceremony of laying on hands.

There is no doubt that any king, if he knew enough, could teach subjects himself, just like he lets others teach in schools. But since running the country takes up all his time, it wouldn’t be right for him to do it himself. A king can also judge and decide cases, or give others permission to do that in his name. But because he has to lead and manage everything, he has to let others do these jobs for him. In the same way, Jesus, who could baptize, didn’t do it himself but sent his Apostles and followers to do it (John 4:2). St. Paul also baptized very few people because he had to preach in many places. For example, he baptized only Crispus, Gaius, and Stephanas among the Corinthians (1 Corinthians 1:14-16) because his main job was preaching.

my name is sandeep gautam
