Back when the Jews had their own government, both the leaders and the people were waiting for the Messiah and the kingdom of God. They believed this because their laws didn’t stop the Messiah from showing who he was when he came. Jesus didn’t break any laws; he only preached and performed miracles to prove he was the Messiah.

He said his kingdom was not on this earth but in another world. He told people to obey their leaders at the time, who followed Moses’ teachings. He even said they should pay taxes to Caesar and didn’t try to be a judge. So, how could his words or actions cause trouble or try to take down the government?

God had a plan for Jesus to be a sacrifice to bring His chosen people back to obey Him. God used the jealousy and ungratefulness of others to make this happen. Jesus’ death wasn’t against Caesar’s laws either. Pilate, the Roman governor, didn’t find Jesus guilty but still let him be crucified to please the Jews. Pilate put up a sign on the cross saying “King of the Jews” and refused to change it even when the Jews complained.

Jesus’ role as king wasn’t supposed to start until after he came back to life.

But when Jesus becomes king, he won’t just be king as God, which he already is everywhere because he’s all-powerful. He will also be king specially for the people who choose to follow him by being baptized.

That’s why Jesus said his Apostles would sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel when he sits on his glorious throne. He meant that he would rule in his human form then. The Bible says the Son of Man will come in glory with his angels and reward everyone based on what they’ve done.

We can read this in other parts of the Bible too. Jesus told his Apostles that he was giving them a kingdom, just like his Father gave him one, so they could eat and drink with him and sit on thrones judging Israel’s tribes. This shows that Jesus’ kingdom will only start when he comes in glory and makes his Apostles judges.  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
