People who are alone and don’t worry about anything often have lots of thoughts. But these thoughts are usually all over the place and don’t make much sense, like the sound of a guitar that’s out of tune or one that only someone who can’t play would hear as music. Still, even when the mind is wandering like this, a person can sometimes notice how one thought connects to another.

For example, during a talk about a civil war, someone once asked what a Roman penny was worth. That might seem like a weird question, but I saw how it made sense. Thinking about the war led to thinking about the king being handed over to his enemies. That made me think of Christ being handed over, then about the 30 pieces of silver, which was the price of that betrayal. From there, the strange question about the Roman penny came up—all in a split second, because thoughts move fast.

There is another kind of thinking that is more steady and focused, guided by what we want or fear. When we really want or fear something, those feelings stick with us strongly and sometimes even stop us from sleeping. From wanting something, we start thinking about ways we’ve seen that can help us get it. Then we think about ways to get those ways, and so on, until we find a starting point that we can control. Because the goal is so important, if our thoughts start to drift, we quickly bring them back to focus. One of the seven wise men noticed this and told people a rule that’s now forgotten: “respice finem,” meaning always keep your goal in mind to guide your thoughts toward reaching it.

There are two kinds of focused thinking. One is when we imagine an effect and look for its causes or the steps needed to get it. Both humans and animals do this. The other kind is when we imagine something and then think about all the possible things we could do with it once we have it. Only humans seem to do this second kind because it shows curiosity beyond basic needs like hunger, thirst, or anger. So, when our thoughts are guided by a plan, they are like a big search or invention, trying to find causes for effects or effects of causes, whether they happened before or are happening now.

my name is sandeep gautam
