Even though he shows that spirits exist, he doesn’t deny that they have bodies. When St. Paul says, “We shall rise spiritual bodies,” (I Corinthians, 15:44) he agrees that spirits have a nature, but that they are bodies of a spiritual kind. This is not hard to understand. For example, air and many other things are bodies, even though they are not made of flesh and bone or other solid parts that we can see.

When Jesus talks to the devil and tells him to leave a person, if the devil means a disease like madness or lunacy, or a physical spirit, then the words don’t seem right. Can diseases hear? Or can there be a physical spirit in a body that already has life and animal spirits? So, are there spirits that don’t have bodies and aren’t just imaginary? 

To answer the first question, Jesus telling madness or lunacy to leave someone is no more strange than him telling a fever, or the wind and sea, to stop. These things don’t hear either. It’s like when God told the light, the sky, the sun, and the stars to exist, even though they couldn’t hear before they were made. These words show the power of God’s command. So, it’s not wrong to tell madness or lunacy, called devils back then, to leave a person’s body.

For the second question about spirits being without bodies, I haven’t found any part of the Bible that says a person was ever possessed by a physical spirit except their own spirit that naturally moves the body.

After the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus like a dove, St. Matthew says Jesus was “led by the Spirit into the wilderness” (Matthew 4:1), and Luke says the same, “Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, was led by the Spirit into the wilderness” (Luke 4:1). This shows the Spirit means the Holy Spirit. This doesn’t mean Jesus was possessed, because Christ and the Holy Spirit are the same substance, not one controlling the other.

Later, Jesus is said to be “taken by the devil into the holy city, and set on the highest point of the temple.” We should not think this means he was possessed by the devil or forced there. 

Also, when it says Jesus was “carried by the devil to a very high mountain, who showed him all the kingdoms of the world,” we should not believe Jesus was possessed or forced by the devil, or that any mountain is really high enough to see the whole world.
