Even though God can talk to people through dreams, visions, voices, or inspiration, He doesn’t force anyone to believe that He has done this for them. People can make mistakes or even lie.

So, how can someone who hasn’t had God directly reveal His will to them (except through common sense) know when to listen to a person claiming to be a prophet? For example, when the King of Israel asked for advice about a war, out of 400 prophets, only one named Micaiah was telling the truth (1 Kings 22). Another true prophet, sent to warn about an altar set up by Jeroboam (1 Kings 13), was tricked by an old prophet who told him to eat and drink with him, pretending it was God’s command. If even prophets can fool each other, how can we be sure about God's will except by using reason?

The Bible teaches that two things together show if a prophet is true: first, they perform miracles; second, they don’t teach a different religion than the one already known. Each one alone isn’t enough. The Bible says, “If a prophet or dreamer does a miracle but tells you to follow other gods, don’t listen to them. That person should be put to death for trying to turn you away from God” (Deuteronomy 13:1-5).

Two important points come from this. First, God doesn’t want miracles to be the only proof that someone is a real prophet. Miracles are also a test to see if people stay loyal to Him. Even the Egyptian magicians did miracles, but they weren’t true prophets. Second, no matter how amazing a miracle is, if it encourages people to rebel against their king or ruler, that person is not to be trusted. Here, “revolt from the Lord your God” means the same as rebelling against your king because the people had agreed to follow God as their king through Moses. Moses was God’s messenger who gave people His commandments.

Likewise, after Jesus told His disciples to accept Him as the Messiah (the promised king the Jews had been waiting for but then rejected), He warned them about the dangers of miracles.  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
