The word “heir” doesn’t just mean someone’s children or closest family. It means anyone a person says should take over their stuff. So, if a king says, either out loud or in writing, that a certain person will be his heir, then that person becomes king right after the old king dies.

If there is no will or clear statement, then other signs of what the king wanted are used. One way is by custom, which means the usual way things are done. If the custom is that the closest family member always takes over, then that person has the right to succeed. This is because if the king wanted it differently, he could have said so when he was alive. If the custom is that only the closest male relative takes over, then the next male relative gets the throne, for the same reason. The same goes if the custom favors females. If the king doesn’t say anything different, it’s natural to think he wants the usual custom to continue.

If there is no will and no custom, it’s assumed first that the king wants the government to stay a monarchy, because he chose that system for himself. Second, it’s assumed he prefers his own children, boys or girls, over anyone else because people naturally care more about their own kids. Among his children, a son is usually preferred because men are thought to be better at hard and dangerous work. Third, if he has no children, a brother is next in line before a stranger. The closer the relative, the more likely they are to inherit, because close family usually means closer feelings. Also, people get more respect from having close relatives who are important.

Some might say it’s a problem if a king can decide who succeeds him by contract or will because he could sell or give his right to rule to a stranger. Strangers, who don’t live under the same government or speak the same language, might not treat people fairly, which is a big problem. But this isn’t always because of strangers ruling, but because the rulers don’t know how to govern well. The Romans, after conquering many nations, tried to fix this by giving some rights and even Roman citizenship to important people in those nations. They even allowed them to join the Senate and hold offices in Rome to make the government work better.
