For monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy do mark out unto us three sorts of sovereigns, not of pastors; or, as we may say, three sorts of masters of families, not three sorts of schoolmasters for their children.
 
 And therefore the second conclusion, concerning the best form of government of the Church, is nothing to the question of the Pope’s power without his own dominions: for in all other Commonwealths his power, if he have any at all, is that of the schoolmaster only, and not of the master of the family.
 
 For the third conclusion, which is that St. Peter was monarch of the Church, he bringeth for his chief argument the place of St. Matthew, “Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church,” etc. “And I will give thee the keys of heaven; whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”(Matthew, 16. 18, 19) Which place, well considered, proveth no more but that the Church of Christ hath for foundation one only article; namely, that which Peter, in the name of all the Apostles professing, gave occasion to our Saviour to speak the words here cited.
 
 Which that we may clearly understand, we are to consider, that our Saviour preached by himself, by John Baptist, and by his Apostles, nothing but this article of faith, “that he was the Christ”; all other articles requiring faith no otherwise than as founded on that. John began first, preaching only this, “The kingdom of God is at hand.”(Ibid., 3. 2) Then our Saviour himself preached the same:(Matthew, 4. 17) and to his twelve Apostles, when he gave them their commission, there is no mention of preaching any other article but that.(Ibid., 10. 7) This was the fundamental article, that is the foundation of the Church’s faith.
 
 Afterwards the Apostles being returned to him, he asketh them all, not Peter only, who men said he was; and they answered that some said he was John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias, or one of the Prophets;(Ibid., 16. 13) then he asked them all again, not Peter only, “Whom say ye that I am?”(Ibid., 16. 15) Therefore St. Peter answered for them all, “Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God”; which I said is the foundation of the faith of the whole Church; from which our Saviour takes the occasion of saying, “upon this stone I will build my Church”: by which it is manifest that by the foundation-stone of the Church was meant the fundamental article of the Church’s faith. But why then, will some object, doth our Saviour interpose these words, “Thou art Peter”? If the original of this text had been rigidly the reason Leviathan/345 would easily have appeared.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
