And I will also take of them for priests and for Levites, saith the Lord”:(Isaiah, 66. 20, 21) whereby it is manifest that the chief seat of God’s kingdom, which is the place from whence the salvation of us that were Gentiles shall proceed, shall be Jerusalem: and the same is also confirmed by our Saviour, in his discourse with the woman of Samaria concerning the place of God’s worship; to whom he saith that the Samaritans worshipped they knew not what, but the Jews worshipped what they knew, “for salvation is of the Jews”(John, 4. 22) (ex Judaeis, that is, begins at the Jews): as if he should say, you worship God, but know not by whom He will save you, as we do, that know it shall be by one of the tribe of Judah; a Jew, not a Samaritan. And therefore also the woman not impertinently answered him again, “We know the Messias shall come.” So that which our Saviour saith, “Salvation is from the Jews,: is the same that Paul says, “The gospel is the power of God to salvation to every one that believeth: to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith”;(Romans, 1. 16, 17) from the faith of the Jew to the faith of the Gentile. In the like sense the prophet Joel, describing the day of judgement, that God would “shew wonders in heaven, and in earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. The sun should be turned to darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord come.”(Joel, 2. 30, 31) He addeth, “and it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be salvation.”(Ibid., 2. 32) And Obadiah, verse 17, saith the same, “Upon Mount Zion shall be deliverance; and there shall be holiness, and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions,” that is, the possessions of the heathen, which possessions he expresseth more particularly in the following verses, by the mount of Esau, the land of the Philistines, the fields of Ephraim, of Samaria, Gilead, and the cities of the South, and concludes with these words, “the kingdom shall be the Lord’s.” All these places are for salvation, and the kingdom of God, after the day of judgement, upon earth. On the other side, I have not found any text that can probably be drawn to prove any ascension of the saints into heaven; that is to say, into any coelum empyreum, or other ethereal region, saving that it is called the kingdom of heaven: which name it may have because God, that was king of the Jews, governed them by His commands sent to Moses by angels from heaven; and after their revolt, sent His Son from heaven to reduce them Leviathan/287 to their obedience; and shall send him thence again to rule both them and all other faithful men from the day of judgement, everlastingly: or from that, that the throne of this our Great King is in heaven; whereas the earth is but His footstool.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
