This kind of thing isn’t very unusual. Even people who are fully awake, if they are scared and believe in spooky stories, and if they are alone in the dark, can imagine things like spirits or ghosts walking in graveyards. But it’s usually just their imagination, or sometimes sneaky people use these fears to sneak around at night without being noticed.

Because people didn’t know how to tell the difference between dreams, strong imaginations, and real things, many old religions were based on this. They believed in creatures like satyrs, fauns, and nymphs. Even today, some people believe in fairies, ghosts, goblins, and witches. I don’t think witches really have magical powers, but they are punished because they wrongly believe they can cause harm and want to do it. Their actions are more like a new religion than actual skills or science. As for fairies and ghosts, some people either taught these beliefs on purpose or didn’t try to stop them, so that things like exorcisms, crosses, and holy water would seem important.

Still, there’s no doubt that God can create strange appearances, but it’s not a real Christian belief that God makes these happen so often that we should be more afraid of them than of natural changes in the world. Bad people sometimes say anything to help themselves, even if it’s not true, just because they think God can do anything. A smart person won’t believe these lies unless there’s good reason to. If people stopped being scared of spirits and stopped believing in false dreams and prophecies, which sneaky people use to trick them, they would be better at following laws and living together peacefully.

Schools should help fix this problem, but instead, they often encourage these wrong ideas. Since they don’t really understand what imagination or the senses are, they just teach what they’ve heard. Some say imaginations come from nowhere; others say they come from what a person wants. Some believe good thoughts come from God and bad ones from the Devil. Some explain the mind as if it works like passing things from one part to another (like from senses to memory to judgment), but they just use confusing words without really explaining anything.
