” So that there is nothing here of the incarnation of a word, but of the incarnation of God the Son, therefore called the Word, because his incarnation was the performance of the promise; in like manner as the Holy Ghost is called the Promise.(Acts, 1. 4; Luke, 24. 49) There are also places of the Scripture where by the Word of God is signified such words as are consonant to reason and equity, though spoken sometimes neither by prophet nor by a holy man. For Pharaoh Necho was an idolater, yet his words to the good King Josiah, in which he advised him by messengers not to oppose him in his march against Carchemish, are said to have proceeded from the mouth of God; and that Josiah, not hearkening to them, was slain in the battle; as is to be read II Chronicles, 35. 21, 22, 23. It is true that as the same history is related in the first Book of Esdras, not Pharaoh, but Jeremiah, spake these words to Josiah from the mouth of the Lord. But we are to give credit to the canonical Scripture whatsoever be written in the Apocrypha.
 
 The Word of God is then also to be taken for the dictates of reason and equity, when the same is said in the Scriptures to be written in man’s heart; as Psalms, 37. 31; Jeremiah, 31. 33; Deuteronomy, 30. 11, 14, and many other like places.
 
 The name of prophet signifieth in Scripture sometimes prolocutor; that is, he that speaketh from God to man, or from man to God: and sometimes predictor, or a foreteller of things to come: and sometimes one that speaketh incoherently, as men that are distracted. It is most frequently used in the sense speaking from God to the people. So Moses, Samuel, Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and others were prophets. And in this sense the high priest was a prophet, for he only went into the sanctum sanctorum to enquire of God, and was to declare his answer to the people.
 
 And therefore when Caiaphas said it was expedient that one man should die for the people, St. John saith that “He spake not this of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that one man should die for the nation.”(John, 11. 51) Also they that in Christian congregations taught the people are said to prophesy.(I Corinthians, 14. 3) In the like sense it is that God saith to Moses concerning Aaron, “He shall be thy spokesman to the people; and he shall be to thee a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God”:(Exodus, 4. 16) that which here is spokesman is, Exodus, 7. 1, interpreted prophet: “See,” saith God, “I have made thee a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.” In the Leviathan/261 sense of speaking from man to God, Abraham is called a prophet where God in a dream speaketh to Abimelech in this manner, “Now therefore restore the man his wife, for he is a prophet, and shall pray for thee”;(Genesis, 20.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
