(I Corinthians 6:3) And II Peter 2:4 says, “God didn’t spare the angels who sinned but threw them into hell.” Also, “The angels who didn’t stay in their first position but left their home are kept in chains of darkness until the final judgment” (Jude 1:6). This shows that angels are permanent beings and that they have a physical form. 

Jesus said, “At the resurrection, people will not marry but will be like the angels in heaven” (Matthew 22:30). When people are raised, they will be permanent, not just spirits without bodies, so angels must be like that too.

There are many other parts of the Bible that lead to the same idea. For people who understand the words “substance” and “incorporeal” (which means not having a body), it’s confusing to say an angel is a spirit without a body. That would mean the angel isn’t really there at all. 

Looking at how the word “angel” is used in the Old Testament, and thinking about dreams and visions people have naturally, I once thought angels were only supernatural images created by God to show His presence and give commands, especially to His people. But many parts of the New Testament and Jesus’ own words made me realize and believe that angels are real, physical, and lasting beings. The Bible doesn’t support the idea that angels don’t exist anywhere or are nothing, which some people say when they call angels “incorporeal.”

The meaning of the word “spirit” also affects what we understand by “inspiration.” If taken literally, inspiration would mean blowing some thin air or wind into a person, like filling a balloon with breath. If spirits aren’t physical but only exist in the imagination, then inspiration would mean just blowing in a fake image, which doesn’t make sense because phantoms aren’t real—they only appear to be real. 

So, in the Bible, the word “inspiration” is used as a metaphor. For example, when it says God “breathed into man the breath of life” (Genesis 2:7), it means God gave life to humans. It doesn’t mean God made a living breath first and then blew it into Adam. Instead, it means God gave him life and the ability to breathe (Acts 17).
