They admit that the rule for Church leaders who always serve at the altar and handle the Eucharist is that they must always stay away from women. They call this rule “continual chastity,” “continence,” and “purity.” So, they say that having a wife is a lack of chastity and self-control. Because of this, they treat marriage like it’s a sin or at least something so dirty that it makes a man unfit to work at the altar. If the rule is because being married is against chastity, then all marriage is bad. If it’s because marriage is too dirty for a man dedicated to God, then many other normal and necessary things people do every day should also make a man unworthy to be a priest, since those things are even dirtier.

But the real reason priests aren’t allowed to marry probably isn’t just because of these mistakes in moral thinking. It’s also not just because being single was seen as better than marriage, as St. Paul thought, since he knew it was hard for preachers running from danger to take care of wives and kids. The real reason came later, from popes and priests who wanted to make themselves the only heirs of God’s kingdom on earth. To do this, they had to stop priests from marrying, because Jesus said that when his kingdom comes, God’s children “will neither marry nor be given in marriage, but will be like angels in heaven.” This means they would be spiritual. Since priests called themselves spiritual, it would be strange for them to have wives when it wasn’t necessary.

From Aristotle’s political ideas, they learned to call all kinds of governments except the popular one (like Athens at that time) tyranny. They called all kings tyrants, and the group of thirty rulers set up by the Spartans in Athens were called the “thirty tyrants.” They also called life under democracy “liberty.” A tyrant originally just meant a ruler. But after most Greek cities got rid of that kind of government, the word started to mean not only a ruler but also the hate that the people had for them. Similarly, the word “king” became hated in Rome after kings were overthrown, because people tend to think that any name given as an insult must mean something very bad, especially when it’s about a big enemy.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
