So, the person who has the most experience in any kind of work can guess what will happen in the future better than others. Because of this, they are the most careful and wise. They are way wiser than someone who is new at that work, even if some young people think differently.

But being careful and wise is not what makes humans different from animals.

There are animals that, even when they are just a year old, watch and do what is best for them more wisely than a ten-year-old child.

Being wise means guessing the future based on what happened before. There is also guessing about the past based on other things, not the future. For example, if someone knows that a strong country first had a civil war and then fell apart, they might look at the remains of another country and guess it also had a war and similar problems. But this guess is almost as uncertain as guessing the future because both are based only on experience.

I can’t think of any other natural ability people have that needs no training except being born human and using the five senses. Other abilities, which I will talk about later and seem to belong only to humans, are learned by studying and practicing. Most people learn these through teaching and training, and they all come from inventing words and language. Besides sensing and thinking, the human mind doesn’t do anything else. But with the help of speech and order, these abilities can grow so much that they make people different from all other living things.

Everything we imagine is limited. So, we cannot have a clear idea of anything infinite. No one can picture something infinitely big, infinitely fast, infinitely long, or infinitely powerful. When we say something is infinite, we just mean we can’t understand its limits because we can’t imagine it. That’s why we use the name of God—not to picture Him (because He is beyond understanding), but to show respect. Also, since everything we think of first comes from our senses, people can’t imagine anything beyond what they can sense.

  
My name is Sandeep Gautam.
