16, “The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the giants,” and Job, 26. 5, “Behold the giants groan under water, and they that dwell with them.” Here the place of the damned is under the water. And Isaiah, 14. 9, “Hell is troubled how to meet thee” (that is, the King of Babylon) “and will displace the giants for thee”: and here again the place of the damned, if the sense be literal, is to be under water.
 
 Thirdly, because the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, by the extraordinary wrath of God, were consumed for their wickedness with fire and brimstone, and together with them the country about made a stinking bituminous lake, the place of the damned is sometimes expressed by fire, and a fiery lake: as in the Apocalypse, 21. 8, “But the timorous, incredulous, and abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone; which is the second death.” So that it is manifest that hell fire, which is here expressed by metaphor, from the real fire of Sodom, signifieth not any certain kind or place of torment, but is to be taken indefinitely for destruction, as it is in Revelation, 20, at the fourteenth verse, where it is said that “Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire”; that is to say, were abolished and destroyed; as if after the day of judgement there shall be no more dying, nor no more going into hell; that is, no more going to Hades (from which word perhaps our word hell is derived), which is the same with no more dying.
 
 Fourthly, from the plague of darkness inflicted on the Egyptians, of which it is written, “They saw not one another, neither rose any man from his place for three days; but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings”;(Exodus, 10. 23) the place of the wicked after judgement is called utter darkness, or, as it is in the original, darkness without. And so it is expressed where the king commandeth his servants, “to bind hand and foot the man that had not on his wedding garment and to cast him into,” eis to skotos to exoteron “external darkness,”(Matthew, 22. 13) or “darkness without”: which, though translated “utter darkness,” does not signify how great, but where that darkness is to be; namely, without the habitation of God’s elect.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
