Leviathan/423  

Motion means moving from one place to another, but things without a body can’t be in a place. So, it’s hard to understand how a soul can leave the body and go to heaven, hell, or purgatory. It’s also strange how ghosts, or even the clothes they wore, can walk around at night in churches or graveyards. I don’t know what they would say about this, except maybe that they walk in a special way, not like normal walking—maybe spiritually, not physically. But these kinds of tricky explanations don’t really solve the problem.

When it comes to eternity, they don’t want to say it’s just endless time. If it was, it would be hard to explain how God’s will and plans can come before His knowledge of what will happen, or how cause comes before effect. Instead, they say eternity is like a “standing still” of the present moment, which they call nunc-stans. But nobody really understands this idea any better than they would understand “hic-stans,” which would mean a hiccup that lasts forever.

People think about bodies by breaking them into parts, and when they do, they also think about the places those parts take up. So, if you have many parts, you have many places. But some say that by God’s power, one body can be in many places at the same time, and many bodies can be in one place at the same time. That’s like saying something is and isn’t at the same time, which doesn’t make sense. These are just some of the confusing ideas people come up with when they try to argue about God’s nature instead of just respecting that it’s beyond our understanding.

God’s qualities don’t exactly tell us what He is, but they show how much we want to honor Him with the best words we can think of. But when people try to really figure out God’s nature using these ideas, they get more and more confused. It’s like someone who doesn’t know the rules of a fancy court, who trips and drops their cloak, then their hat, making everything look worse and showing how nervous and unprepared they are.  

my name is sandeep gautam
