23) Here, it talks clearly about God ruling in Zion and Jerusalem—that means on earth. It says, “And the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion” (Micah 4:7). This Mount Zion is a place in Jerusalem on earth. It also says, “As I live, says the Lord God, surely with a mighty hand, and a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, I will rule over you” (Ezekiel 20:33). And, “I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant” (Ezekiel 20:37). This means God will rule over you and make you keep the promise you made with Him through Moses, which you broke when you rebelled during Samuel’s time and chose another king.

In the New Testament, the angel Gabriel says about Jesus, “He shall be great, and be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord shall give him the throne of his father David; and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and his kingdom will never end” (Luke 1:32-33). This kingdom is also on earth. Because of this claim, Jesus was treated like an enemy of Caesar and was put to death. The sign on his cross said, “Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.” They even put a crown of thorns on him to mock him. His followers were said to go against Caesar’s rules by saying there was another King, Jesus (Acts 17:7). So, God’s kingdom is a real kingdom, not just a symbol, both in the Old and New Testaments.

When we say, “For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory,” we mean God’s kingdom because of our agreement with Him, not just because God is powerful. God always has power, so saying “Thy kingdom come” in our prayers means we are asking for the return of God’s kingdom through Christ, which was interrupted when the Israelites rebelled and chose Saul as king. It wouldn’t make sense to say, “The kingdom of heaven is near,” or pray, “Thy kingdom come,” if God’s kingdom was still fully there.

There are many other verses that support this idea, but people don’t talk about it much because it would give Christian kings more reasons to claim power over the church. They try to change “a kingdom of priests” to “a kingdom of priests” in a way that hides the real meaning. It’s like calling a special group of soldiers the general’s “precious jewel” or “treasure” to show how important they are.
