factions leagued.
 
 Therefore to have servants is power; to have friends is power: for they are strengths united.
 
 Also, riches joined with liberality is power; because it procureth friends and servants: without liberality, not so; because in this case they defend not, but expose men to envy, as a prey.
 
 Reputation of power is power; because it draweth with it the adherence of those that need protection.
 
 So is reputation of love of a man’s country, called popularity, for the same reason.
 
 Also, what quality soever maketh a man beloved or feared of many, or the reputation of such quality, is power; because it is a means to have the assistance and service of many.
 
 Good success is power; because it maketh reputation of wisdom or good fortune, which makes men either fear him or rely on him.
 
 Affability of men already in power is increase of power; because it gaineth love.
 
 Reputation of prudence in the conduct of peace or war is power; because to prudent men we commit the government of ourselves more willingly than to others.
 
 Nobility is power, not in all places, but only in those Commonwealths where it has privileges; for in such privileges consisteth their power.
 
 Eloquence is power; because it is seeming prudence.
 
 Form is power; because being a promise of good, it recommendeth men to the favour of women and strangers.
 
 The sciences are small powers; because not eminent, and therefore, not acknowledged in any man; nor are at all, but in a few, and in them, but of a few things. For science is of that nature, as none can understand it to be, but such as in a good measure have attained it.
 
 Arts of public use, as fortification, making of engines, and other instruments of war, because they confer to defence and victory, are power; and though the true mother of them be science, namely, the mathematics yet, because they are brought into the light by the hand of the artificer, they be esteemed (the midwife passing with the vulgar for the mother) as his issue.
 
 The value or worth of a man is, as of all other things, his price; that is to say, so much as would be given for the use of his power, and therefore is not absolute, but a thing dependent on the need and judge- Leviathan/55 ment of another.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
