(I Corinthians, 5. 3, 4, 5) But kicking someone out of the church just because they believe Jesus is the Christ, even if they have different opinions about other things, doesn’t have support in the Bible or from the Apostles. There is a verse from St. Paul that might seem different: “If someone is a heretic, after warning them once or twice, reject them.” (Ibid., 5. 11, 12) A heretic is someone in the Church who teaches ideas the Church says are wrong. St. Paul tells Titus to stop arguing with such a person after warning them a couple of times, but this doesn’t mean they should be kicked out. It means to give up trying to convince them and just leave them alone.

The same Apostle also says, “Avoid foolish and unimportant questions.” (II Timothy, 2. 23) The word “avoid” here is the same as “reject” in the other verse, but it just means to ignore silly questions, not to kick people out. And again, “Avoid foolish questions” (Titus, 3. 9) uses a similar word that means to ignore, not exclude. There is no other verse that even suggests kicking out faithful people who believe in the main truth, just because they have their own ideas that come from honest beliefs.

Actually, all these verses about avoiding arguments were written to teach church leaders like Timothy and Titus not to create new rules about every tiny argument. Doing that would make people feel guilty for no good reason or cause fights that break the Church’s unity. The Apostles followed this advice themselves. For example, Peter and Paul had big disagreements (as we see in Galatians 2.11), but they never kicked each other out of the Church. However, there were some church leaders who didn’t follow this, like Diotrephes, who kicked out people that St. John thought should stay, just because he wanted to be more important than others (3 John, 9). This shows how pride and selfishness got into the Church very early on.

For someone to be kicked out of the Church, many things have to be true first. One important thing is that the person must belong to a real Christian community that has the power to judge the situation and decide if excommunication is necessary.
