Leviathan/21 Speech helps us remember how causes and effects are connected by giving names and linking them together.

Some names are special and only belong to one thing, like Peter, John, this man, or this tree. Other names are general and can be used for many things, like man, horse, or tree. Even though these general names are just one word, they can refer to many different things. These general names are called universals because only names can be universal, while things themselves are always individual and unique.

One universal name is given to many things because they share some quality or feature. A proper name points to just one thing, but a universal name can mean any one of many things.

Among universal names, some cover more things than others, and some cover the same number of things. For example, the name "body" covers more than "man" because all men are bodies, but not all bodies are men. The names "man" and "rational" cover the same group because they refer to the same set of things. Also, a name isn’t always just one word. Sometimes, many words together act as one name. For example, the phrase "He that in his actions observeth the laws of his country" means the same as the single word "just."

By giving names that are more general or more specific, we can turn thinking about how things cause other things into thinking about how names relate to each other. For example, if someone can’t speak at all, like a person who is born deaf and mute, and they see a triangle with two right angles next to it (like the corners of a square), they might figure out that the three angles of that triangle equal those two right angles. But if they see a different triangle, they won’t know if its three angles are also equal to two right angles without more work.

But someone who knows words will understand that this equality doesn’t depend on the length of the sides or any other detail, just on the fact that the shape has three straight sides and three angles, which is why it’s called a triangle. So, they can confidently say that every triangle’s three angles equal two right angles, and write down this idea using general words.  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
