For thus God saith expressly concerning Joshua: “He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask counsel for him before the Lord; at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him.”(Numbers, 27.
 
 21) Therefore the supreme power of making war and peace was in the priest. The supreme power of judicature belonged also to the high priest: for the Book of the Law was in their keeping, and the priests and Levites only were the subordinate judges in causes civil, as appears in Deuteronomy, 17. 8, 9, 10. And for the manner of God’s worship, there was never doubt made but that the high priest, till the time of Saul, had the supreme authority. Therefore the civil and ecclesiastical power were both joined together in one and the same person, the high priest; and ought to be so, in whosoever governeth by divine right; that is, by authority immediate from God.
 
 After the death of Joshua, till the time of Saul, the time between is noted frequently in the Book of Judges, “that there was in those days no king in Israel”; and sometimes with this addition, that “every man did that which was right in his own eyes.” By which is to be understood that where it is said, “there was no king,” is meant, “there was no sovereign power,” in Israel. And so it was, if we consider the act and exercise of such power. For after the death of Joshua and Eleazar, “there arose another generation that knew not the Lord, nor the nor the works which He had done for Israel, but did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Baalim.”(Judges, 2. 10) And the Jews had that quality which St. Paul noteth, “to look for a sign,” not only before they would submit themselves to the government of Moses, but also after they had obliged themselves by their submission. Whereas signs and miracles had for end to procure faith, not to keep men from violating it when they have once given it, for to that men are obliged by the law of nature. But if we consider not the exercise, but the right of governing, the sovereign power was still in the high priest. Therefore whatsoever obedience was yielded to any of the judges (who were men chosen by God extraordinarily to save His rebellious subjects out of the hands of the enemy), it cannot be drawn into argument against the right the high priest had to the sovereign power in all matters both of policy and religion. And neither the judges nor Samuel himself had an ordinary, but extraordinary, calling to 296/Thomas Hobbes the government, and were obeyed by the Israelites, not out of duty, but out of reverence to their favour with God, appearing in their wisdom, courage, or felicity.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
