Leviathan/25

Sometimes, people put two words together that don’t make sense because their meanings don’t match. For example, calling something “an incorporeal body” is confusing because a body is physical, but incorporeal means not physical. When two words that don’t fit together are joined, they don’t mean anything. Like saying a square is round—“round square” doesn’t make sense and is just nonsense. 

The same goes for saying things like “poured virtue” or “blown virtue.” These phrases don’t make sense either, just like “round square.” Many weird or silly words come from mixing Latin or Greek words. For example, French people don’t call Jesus “Parole” much, but they do say “Verbe” instead. Both words mean the same thing, but one is Latin and the other French.

When someone hears speech and thinks about what the words were meant to mean, that person is said to understand the speech. Understanding is just the idea you get from hearing words. If speech is something only humans can do, then understanding is something only humans can do too. So, if a statement is false or doesn’t make sense, people can’t really understand it, even if they repeat the words over and over in their heads.

I will talk about what kinds of speech show our desires, dislikes, and feelings later, after I explain about emotions.

Words that describe things that affect us—things we like or dislike—can mean different things to different people. This is because not everyone feels the same way about the same thing, and even the same person might feel differently at different times. Since words are made to show what we think, and our feelings are part of our thoughts, different feelings can cause different meanings for the same word.

Even if the thing we are thinking about is the same, the way we feel about it changes how we name it. This happens because of our different bodies and opinions. So, when arguing or discussing, we have to be careful with words. Words don’t just show what we think about something, but also show the speaker’s feelings and point of view. For example, one person might call wisdom “fear,” or call cruelty “justice.” One person’s wastefulness is another’s generosity, and what one calls seriousness, another might call stupidity.

my name is sandeep gautam
