Jesus said, “Who made me a judge or someone to divide you?” (Luke 12:14) and “I didn’t come to judge the world, but to save it.” (John 12:47) But even though he said this, Jesus actually came to be a king and a judge in the world to come. He was the Messiah, which means the anointed priest and the chosen prophet of God. This means he had all the power that Moses had, plus the power of the priests and kings who came after Moses.

St. John clearly says, “The Father doesn’t judge anyone but has given all judgment to the Son.” (John 5:22) This doesn’t contradict Jesus saying he didn’t come to judge the world. That first statement refers to the present world, while the second talks about the world to come. Also, when Jesus comes back, He will sit on His glorious throne, and those who followed Him will also sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. (Matthew 19:28)

If Jesus didn’t have a kingdom on earth while He was here, then why did He come the first time? He came to bring back God’s kingdom through a new agreement because the old kingdom, given to the Israelites, was lost when they chose Saul as king and rebelled. Jesus came to tell people He was the promised king, and to offer Himself as a sacrifice for the sins of those who believed in Him. If the nation rejected Him, He would call believers from the Gentiles to follow Him.

So, during His time on earth, Jesus had two main jobs: one was to announce that He was the Christ, and the other was to teach and perform miracles to help people live in a way that would make them ready for the eternal life they would have when He came back in glory to take over His Father’s kingdom. That’s why His time of teaching is often called the regeneration. This is not exactly a kingdom, so it didn’t mean people should disobey the rulers at that time. Jesus told people to obey those in Moses’ place and to pay taxes to Caesar. His kingdom was a promise of the future for those who believed in Him.

Because of this, faithful people are said to already be part of the kingdom of grace, like they have become citizens of God’s heavenly kingdom.

Up to this point, nothing Jesus did or taught took away the civil rights of the Jews or the authority of Caesar.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
