Now, about worshipping saints, pictures, old objects, and other things that people do today in the Church of Rome, I say that God’s word doesn’t allow it. These things were not part of the original teachings of the Church of Rome. Instead, some of these practices stayed from when non-Jewish people first became Christians, and later, the leaders of the Church of Rome accepted and added to them.

When people try to use Bible stories about God telling people to put up images as proof, it’s important to know those images were not meant for people to worship. Instead, people were supposed to worship God Himself in front of those images, like the cherubim over the Ark or the bronze serpent. The Bible doesn’t say priests or anyone worshipped those images. In fact, King Hezekiah destroyed the bronze serpent because people were wrongly worshipping it. Also, the second Commandment says, “You must not make any carved images,” and it clearly separates the images God told people to make from the ones people make for themselves. So, using the cherubim or bronze serpent as reasons to worship human-made images is not a good argument.

It’s also important to remember that just like Hezekiah destroyed the bronze serpent to stop people from worshipping it, Christian kings today should remove images that people wrongly worship, to stop idolatry. Many people who worship images today actually believe these images have special powers. Their church leaders even tell them that some images have spoken, bled, or done miracles. These people think the saint is actually in the image or that the image itself is the saint.

When the Israelites worshipped the golden calf, they thought they were worshipping the God who saved them from Egypt. But it was still idolatry because they believed the calf was God or had God inside it. Some might think people today are too smart to believe an image is God or a saint, but the Bible shows otherwise. When the golden calf was made, the people said, “These are your gods, Israel.” Also, Laban’s images are called his gods in the Bible.
