(Genesis, 12. 7) So there is one way whereby God made His presence manifest; that is, by an apparition, or vision. And again, the word of the Lord came to Abraham in a vision”;(Ibid., 15. 1) that is to say, somewhat, as a sign of God’s presence, appeared as God’s messenger to speak to him. Again, the Lord appeared to Abraham by an apparition of three angels;(Ibid., 18. 1) and to Abimelech in a dream;(Ibid., 20. 3) to Lot by an apparition of two angels;(Ibid., 19. 1) and to Hagar by the apparition of one angel;(Ibid., 21. 17) and to Abraham again by the apparition of a voice from heaven;(Ibid., 22. 11) and to Isaac in the night (Ibid., 26. 24) (that is, in his sleep, or by dream); and to Jacob in a dream;(Ibid., 28. 12) that is to say (as are the words of the text), “Jacob dreamed that he saw a ladder,” etc. And in a vision of angels;(Ibid., 32. 1) and to Moses in the apparition of a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush;(Exodus, 3. 2) and after the time of Moses, where the manner how God spake immediately to man in the Old Testament is expressed, He spake always by a vision, or by a dream; as to Gideon, Samuel, Eliah, Elisha, Isaiah, Ezekiel, and the rest of the prophets; and often in the New Testament, as to Joseph, to St. Peter, to St. Paul, and to St. John the Evangelist in the Apocalypse.
 
 Only to Moses He spake in a more extraordinary manner in Mount Sinai, and in the Tabernacle; and to the high priest in the Tabernacle, and in the sanctum sanctorum of the Temple. But Moses, and after him the high priests, were prophets of a more eminent place and degree in God’s favour; and God Himself in express words declareth that to other prophets He spake in dreams and visions, but to His servant Moses in such manner as a man speaketh to his friend. The words are these: “If there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make Myself known to him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house; with him I will speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lord shall he behold.”(Numbers, 12. 6, 7, 8) And, “The Lord spake to Moses face to face, as a man speaketh to his friend.”(Exodus, 33. 11) And yet this speaking of God to Moses was by mediation of an angel, or angels, as appears expressly, Acts 7. 35 and 53, and Galatians, 3. 19, and was therefore a vision, though a more clear vision than was given to other prophets. And conformable hereunto, where God saith, “If there arise amongst you a prophet, or dreamer of dreams,”(Deuteronomy, 13.
 
 1) the latter word is but the interpretation of the former. And, “Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old men shall dream 264/Thomas Hobbes dreams, and your young men shall see visions”:(Joel, 2.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
