388/Thomas Hobbes

John said, “If I want him to stay until I come, what does that matter to you?” (John 21:22). Because of this, some people thought that he would not die. But this idea was never really proven true or false—it just stayed as a confusing saying that people didn’t fully understand. The same problem happens in the book of St. Mark.

If we try to guess what it means by looking at what comes next, both here and in St. Luke where the same thing is repeated, it might be about the Transfiguration. This is when, right after these words, Jesus takes Peter, James, and John (not all the disciples, just some) up a high mountain by themselves. There, Jesus changes, and his clothes become super bright and white. Elijah and Moses appear and talk with Jesus. The disciples see Jesus in his glory and feel very scared. So, Jesus’ promise was fulfilled in this vision.

It was a vision, which we can guess from St. Luke’s story where Peter and the others were very sleepy, and Matthew 17:9 where Jesus tells them, “Don’t tell anyone about this vision until after the Son of Man has risen from the dead.” No matter what, this story doesn’t prove that God’s kingdom starts before the day of judgment.

Some people use other Bible verses to say the Pope has power over kings, like the story of the two swords (one spiritual and one political) that Christ and his apostles had. They say the Pope got these swords from Christ. They also say the two lights in the sky mean the Pope (the bigger one) and the king (the smaller one). But someone could just as well say the first verse of the Bible means heaven is the Pope and the earth is the king. This isn’t real Bible argument, but just a way to insult kings that started after popes got too proud and looked down on Christian kings and emperors. They even made fun of kings using words from Psalm 91: “You will step on the lion and the snake; the young lion and the dragon you will crush under your feet.”

About church ceremonies like consecration, these mostly depend on the judgment of church leaders, not just the Bible. But those leaders still have to make sure the ceremonies, words, and actions are proper and meaningful, or at least fit the purpose of the ceremony.


my name is sandeep gautam
