But it may perhaps be alleged that the last chapter only, not the whole Pentateuch, was written by some other man, but the rest not. Let us therefore consider that which we find in the Book of Genesis, “And Abraham passed through the land to the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh, and the Canaanite was then in the land”; (Genesis, 12. 6) which must needs be the words of one that wrote when the Canaanite was not in the land; and consequently, not of Moses, who died before he came into it. Likewise Numbers, 21. 14, the writer citeth another more ancient book, entitled, The Book of the Wars of the Lord, wherein were registered the acts of Moses, at the Red Sea, and at the brook of Arnon.
 
 It is therefore sufficiently evident that the five Books of Moses were written after his time, though how long after it be not so manifest.
 
 But though Moses did not compile those books entirely, and in the form we have them; yet he wrote all that which he is there said to have written: as for example, the volume of the law, which is contained, as it seemeth, in the 11th of Deuteronomy, and the following chapters to the 27th, which was also commanded to be written on stones, in their entry into the land of Canaan. And this did Moses himself write, and deliver to the priests and elders of Israel, to be read every seventh year to all Israel, at their assembling in the feast of tabernacles. (Deuteronomy, 21.
 
 9, 10) And this is that law which God commanded that their kings (when they should have established that form of government) should take a copy of from the priests and Levites; and which Moses commanded the priests and Levites to lay in the side of the Ark;(Ibid., 31. 26) and the same which, having been lost, was long time after found again by Hilkiah, (II Kings, 22. 8) and sent to King Josias, who, causing it to be read to the people, renewed the covenant between God and them.(Ibid., 23. 1– 3) That the Book of Joshua was also written long after the time of Joshua may be gathered out of many places of the book itself. Joshua had set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, for a monument of their passage; of which the writer saith thus, “They are there unto this day”;(Joshua, 4. 9) for unto this day is a phrase that signifieth a time past, beyond the memory of man. In like manner, upon the saying of the Lord that He had rolled off from the people the reproach of Egypt, the writer saith, “The place is called Gilgal unto this day”;(Ibid., 5. 9) which to have said in the time of Joshua had been improper. So also the name Leviathan/235 of the valley of Achor, from the trouble that Achan raised in the camp, the writer saith, “remaineth unto this day”;(Ibid.
 

 
my name is sandeep gautam
 
