Finally, when it comes to predicting the future, people usually guess based on what has happened before or what they believe comes from a divine source. The people who started the religions of non-Christian cultures added many superstitious ways to predict the future.

Sometimes, people thought they could find out their destiny from confusing or silly answers given by priests at famous places like Delphi or Delos. These answers were often made unclear on purpose so they could be understood in different ways later. Sometimes, the priests were in places with strange gases that made them act weird.

Other times, people looked for answers in ancient books like those of the Sibyls, or in the strange words of people believed to be possessed by spirits, which they called enthusiasm. These were seen as forms of prophecy.

People also tried to predict the future by looking at the stars when someone was born, which was called horoscopy or astrology. Sometimes they guessed based on their own feelings, called thumomancy. Witches claimed to talk to the dead to predict things, but this was just trickery.

People also watched birds flying or eating (augury), examined the insides of sacrificed animals (haruspicy), paid attention to dreams, or listened to birds like ravens. They read faces (metoposcopy) or hands (palmistry) for signs, and sometimes thought strange events like eclipses or comets were warnings of disasters.

Even random things like flipping coins, counting holes in a sieve, or picking verses from books were used to guess the future. People are easy to believe these things if someone they trust tells them, especially when they are scared or don’t know much.

Because of this, the first leaders and law-makers in these cultures wanted to keep people obedient and peaceful. They made sure people believed that the religious rules they gave didn’t come from them but from gods or spirits. Sometimes, they even claimed to be more than normal humans, so people would listen to their laws more easily.

For example, Numa Pompilius said the religious ceremonies he started came from a nymph named Egeria. The first king of Peru claimed he and his wife were children of the sun. Muhammad said he talked to the Holy Spirit in the form of a dove to start his religion.
