After that time, there was no other kingdom of God in the world, except that He always has been, is now, and will be the king of all people and all creatures, ruling with His unlimited power. Still, He promised through His prophets that He would bring back His government to them when the right time comes, which only He knows. This will happen when people turn to Him by saying sorry and changing their lives.

Not only that, but He also invited non-Jews (Gentiles) to join and enjoy the happiness of His rule if they also repent and change. He promised to send His Son to the world to take away everyone’s sins through His death and to teach them so they would be ready to accept Him when He comes back. Since that second coming hasn’t happened yet, the kingdom of God is not here now, and we are under the rule of our civil leaders, except that Christians are already part of the kingdom of grace because they have the promise of being accepted when Jesus returns.

Because of the wrong idea that the current Church is Christ’s kingdom, people think there must be one person or group who speaks for Jesus from heaven, makes laws, and represents Him to all Christians. Or they think there are different people or groups doing this in different parts of the Christian world. The Pope claims this power everywhere, and in some countries, local church leaders also claim it (even though the Bible says only civil rulers have this power). This causes lots of arguments and confusion, making people unsure about who they should really obey.

Because the Pope claims to be Christ’s representative on Earth and leader of the Church (which is thought to be His kingdom), some believe a Christian king must get his crown from a bishop. They say that only during this ceremony does the king get his title “by the grace of God” and become truly king by God’s favor through the Pope’s authority. They also believe every bishop must swear total loyalty to the Pope when they are made bishops. Another related belief from a church council in the past says that if a king doesn’t remove false teachings from his kingdom after the Pope tells him to, and if he is kicked out of the Church (excommunicated) and doesn’t fix things within a year, then his people don’t have to obey him anymore.
