A bishop is a word that comes from the Greek word "episcopus," which means someone who watches over or is in charge of something, especially a pastor or shepherd. This idea was used not only by the Jewish people, who were originally shepherds, but also by other groups to mean a king or leader who guides people, whether by laws or teachings. The first Christian bishops were the Apostles, chosen by Jesus himself. For example, Judas’s role as an apostle is called his “bishoprick” (Acts 1:20). Later, when churches had elders to help guide people with teaching and advice, these elders were also called bishops. Timothy was an elder (which means a leader, not just an older person) and a bishop too. Back then, bishops were happy being called elders. Even St. John, the Apostle loved by Jesus, started his Second Letter by calling himself “The elder” to a chosen lady. This shows that bishop, pastor, elder, and teacher were just different names for the same job during the time of the Apostles. There was no force or strict control in the church then, only teaching and convincing people. The kingdom of God was still coming in the future, so no one had the power to force others in the church until the Christian faith became accepted by the government. That’s why there were no different levels of authority, even though people had different roles.

Besides these important jobs in the Church—like apostles, bishops, elders, pastors, and teachers—whose job was to tell others about Christ and teach believers, the New Testament doesn’t mention any other official roles. The words evangelists and prophets don’t mean official jobs but special gifts some people had to help the Church. Evangelists helped by writing about Jesus’s life and actions, like St. Matthew and St. John (who were Apostles), and St. Mark and St. Luke (who were disciples). Others like St. Thomas and St. Barnabas are said to have written about Jesus too, but their books aren’t part of the official Bible. Prophets had the gift to explain the Old Testament and sometimes shared special messages from God with the Church. But none of these gifts—like speaking different languages, casting out demons, or healing—made someone an official leader. Only those called and chosen to teach had that role.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
