How can someone be forced to obey others? First, how can a person be sure that someone else has a message from God if they don’t get a message themselves? It’s basically impossible. People might believe because they see miracles, or because that person lives a very good and wise life, which shows God’s favor. But these things don’t prove for sure that the person really got a special message from God. Miracles are amazing, but what seems amazing to one person might not be to another.

Also, someone can fake being holy, and often the good things we see in the world happen naturally, not because of miracles. So, no one can know for sure just by thinking naturally that someone else got a supernatural message from God. They can only believe it more or less, depending on the signs they see.

Now, about how someone can be forced to obey these laws, it’s not that hard to understand. If the law someone says doesn’t go against the natural law (which is God’s law), and a person agrees to follow it, then they are bound by their own choice to obey. But they don’t have to believe it for sure. People’s beliefs and thoughts can’t be controlled by commands, only by God’s power. Faith in laws from God is not something we do to please God; it’s a gift that God gives to whoever He wants. Not believing is not breaking God’s laws, but it is rejecting all laws except natural ones.

This will be clearer with examples from the Bible. God made a special promise to Abraham, saying, “This is the promise you and your children must follow.” Abraham’s children didn’t get this message directly and weren’t even born yet, but they still had to obey what Abraham told them about God’s law. They had to because they owed obedience to their parents, who had authority over them if no other ruler was in charge.

Also, God said to Abraham, “Through you all nations will be blessed, because I know you will teach your children and household to follow God’s ways and be just.” So, it’s clear that Abraham’s family obeyed him not because they had a special message, but because they had to obey their leader.
