One good thing about having one ruler for everyone, because people want to be in charge, is that it makes sense that the Popes who claimed this power and had it for a long time were the ones who created the idea behind it. This idea is that the Church on Earth is like Christ’s kingdom. If you believe that, then you have to believe Christ has someone here on Earth telling us what His rules are.

After some Churches said no to the Pope’s total power, you would think that the kings and rulers in those Churches would take back the power they had before they gave it away. In England, this kind of happened. But the people helping the kings run the Church acted like they had their own power, separate from the king. They only seemed to do this because they admitted the king could stop them anytime he wanted.

But in places where the presbytery (a group of church leaders) took charge, even though they stopped teaching many of the Catholic Church’s ideas, they still kept the idea that Christ’s kingdom had already started after He rose from the dead. But why? What did they want from that? The same thing the Popes wanted: to have control over the people. For example, when people excommunicate (kick out) their own king, they stop him from taking part in Church events in his own kingdom and even try to fight him if he tries to take back control. Or when they excommunicate someone without permission from the government, they’re just taking away that person’s freedom unfairly. So, the Roman Catholic and Presbyterian church leaders are the ones causing this confusion in religion.

Also, there are ideas that help these leaders keep their power once they have it. First, the idea that the Pope can never be wrong when he speaks officially. Who wouldn’t listen to him if they really believed that?

Second, the idea that all other bishops don’t get their power directly from God or from their government, but from the Pope. This means many powerful church leaders in different countries depend on the Pope and obey him, even if he is a foreign leader. Because of this, the Pope has been able, many times, to cause wars in countries that won’t follow his wishes.  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
