This is the end of the Project Gutenberg eBook of Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus by Ludwig Wittgenstein.

This file should be named 5740-pdf.pdf or 5740-pdf.zip. You can find this file and others like it at http://www.gutenberg.org/5/7/4/5740/. It was created by Jana Srna, Norbert H. Langkau, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net. New versions will replace old ones, and old versions will be renamed.

Because these works come from public domain print editions, no one owns the copyright in the United States. This means the Foundation and you can copy and share them in the U.S. without asking for permission or paying fees. There are special rules in the General Terms of Use to protect the Project Gutenberg name and idea. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark and you can't use it if you charge money for the eBooks unless you get special permission. If you don’t charge for copies of this eBook, following the rules is easy.

You can use this eBook for almost anything, like making new works, reports, performances, or research. You can change it, print it, and give it away—you can do almost anything with public domain eBooks. But if you share it for money, you have to follow the trademark rules.

*** START: FULL LICENSE ***  
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE  
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU SHARE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect Project Gutenberg’s goal of sharing free electronic works, by using or sharing this work (or any work connected to "Project Gutenberg"), you agree to follow all the rules in the Full Project Gutenberg License, which you can find with this file or online at http://gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Rules for Using and Sharing Project Gutenberg Works  
1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg electronic work, you show that you have read, understood, agreed to, and accepted all the terms of this license and the copyright/trademark rules. If you don’t agree to follow all these rules, you must stop using the work and delete or destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg works you have.
