These rules are equivalent to the symbols and in them their sense is mirrored.
 
 5.515 It must be recognized in our symbols that what is connected by “∨”, “.”, etc., must be propositions.
 
 And this is the case, for the symbols “p” and “q” presuppose “∨”, “∼”, etc. If the sign “p” in “p ∨ q” does not stand for a complex sign, then by itself it cannot have sense; but then also the signs “p∨p”, “p.p”, etc. which have the same sense as “p” have no sense. If, however, “p∨p” has no sense, then also “p∨q” can have no sense.
 
 5.5151 Must the sign of the negative proposition be constructed by means of the sign of the positive? Why should one not be able to express the negative proposition by means of a negative fact?
 
 (Like: if “a” does not stand in a certain relation to “b”, it could express that aRb is not the case.) But here also the negative proposition is indirectly constructed with the positive.
 
 The positive proposition must presuppose the existence of the negative proposition and conversely.
 
 5.52 If the values of ξ are the total values of a function fx for all values of x, then N(ξ) = ∼(∃x).fx.
 
 5.521 I separate the concept all from the truth-function.
 
 Frege and Russell have introduced generality in connexion with the logical product or the logical sum. Then it would be difficult to understand the propositions “(∃x).fx” and “(x).fx” in which both ideas lie concealed.
 
 5.522 That which is peculiar to the “symbolism of generality” is firstly, that it refers to a logical prototype, and secondly, that it makes constants prominent.
 
 5.523 The generality symbol occurs as an argument.
 
 5.524 If the objects are given, therewith are all objects also given.
 
 If the elementary propositions are given, then therewith all elementary propositions are also given.
 
 5.525 It is not correct to render the proposition “(∃x).fx”—as Russell does—in words “fx is possible”.
 
 68 TRACTATUS LOGICO-PHILOSOPHICUS Certainty, possibility or impossibility of a state of affairs are notexpressedbyapropositionbutbythefactthatanexpression is a tautology, a significant proposition or a contradiction.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
