Objects can only be talked about when we connect them to some clear quality. For example, we can say “there are more than three objects that are human,” or “there are more than three objects that are red.” In these sentences, the word “object” can be replaced by a symbol in logic that matches the idea “x is human” or “x is red.” But if we try to say “there are more than three objects” without any description, we can’t replace “object” like that, so the sentence doesn’t really make sense.

This idea shows one of Wittgenstein’s main points: we can’t say anything about the whole world all at once. Anything we say has to be about smaller, limited parts of the world.

This idea might have first come from the way we write logic. If that’s true, it’s a good thing, because good notation (the way we write things) can help us understand ideas better, almost like a teacher. When the writing or symbols don’t work well, that often shows there’s a mistake in the thinking. A perfect way of writing would almost replace the need to think. Even if notation helped Wittgenstein see that logic only works inside the world and not about the world as a whole, this idea still makes sense in other ways. I don’t know if it’s completely true or not. In this introduction, I just want to explain it, not decide if it’s right.

According to this view, we could only say things about the whole world if we could get outside of it. That means if it stopped being the whole world for us. Maybe a being smarter than us could see the whole world from above, but for us, no matter how big or small our world is, it can’t have an edge because there’s nothing outside it. Wittgenstein compares this to how we see things. Our field of vision doesn’t have a real edge for us because there’s nothing beyond it. In the same way, our logical world has no edge because our logic doesn’t know anything outside it.

These ideas lead Wittgenstein to talk about solipsism (the idea that only your mind is sure to exist). He says logic fills the world. The edges of the world are also its limits. So, in logic, we can’t say “there are these things in the world, but not those other things,” because to say that, we would have to imagine being outside the world looking in. But we can’t do that, so logic can’t go beyond the world’s limits.
