The fact that you can’t figure out anything from a simple atomic statement has some cool effects, especially when it comes to cause and effect. According to Wittgenstein’s logic, there is no real way to prove that one thing causes another. He says, “You can’t predict future events just by looking at what’s happening now.”

Superstition is when people believe in cause and effect without proof. For example, saying the sun will rise tomorrow is just a guess. We don’t actually know for sure because nothing forces one thing to happen just because something else happened.

Now, let’s talk about names. In Wittgenstein’s logical language, names are only given to simple things. We don’t give two names to one thing, or one name to two things. He says it’s impossible to describe everything that exists by naming all things. To do that, we would need to know a property that every single thing must have by logic. People thought maybe “self-identity” is that property, but Wittgenstein disagrees strongly.

He rejects the idea that two things are identical if they share all the same properties because it’s possible, logically, for two things to have exactly the same properties but still be different. If this never happens, it’s just a coincidence in the world, not a rule of logic. Since logic can’t be based on coincidences, Wittgenstein removes the idea of identity from logic and just says different letters stand for different things.

In real life, we still need identity when we link a name to a description or compare two descriptions. For example, “Socrates is the philosopher who drank poison” or “The even prime number comes right after 1.” Wittgenstein’s system can handle these cases easily.

Getting rid of identity means we lose one way to talk about everything that exists. Wittgenstein says any other way to do this also doesn’t work. So, the idea of “object” is not a real concept but a fake one.

Saying “x is an object” doesn’t actually mean anything. Because of this, we can’t say things like “There are more than three objects in the world” or “There are infinite objects in the world.”
