1272 Sothevariablename“x” isthepropersignofthepseudo-concept object.
 
 Wherever the word “object” (“thing”, “entity”, etc.) is rightly used, it is expressed in logical symbolism by the variable name.
 
 For example in the proposition “there are two objects which ...”, by “(∃x,y) ...”.
 
 Wherever it is used otherwise, i.e. as a proper concept word, there arise senseless pseudo-propositions.
 
 Soonecannot, e.g.say“Thereareobjects” asonesays“There are books”. Nor “There are 100 objects” or “There are ℵ ob0 jects”. And it is senseless to speak of the number of all objects.
 
 The same holds of the words “Complex”, “Fact”, “Function”, “Number”, etc.
 
 They all signify formal concepts and are presented in logical symbolism by variables, not by functions or classes (as Frege and Russell thought).
 
 Expressions like “1 is a number”, “there is only one number nought”, and all like them are senseless.
 
 (It is as senseless to say, “there is only one 1” as it would be to say: 2 + 2 is at 3 o’clock equal to 4.) 4.12721 The formal concept is already given with an object, which falls under it. One cannot, therefore, introduce both, the objects which fall under a formal concept and the formal concept itself, as primitive ideas. One cannot, therefore, e.g. introduce (as Russell does) the concept of function and also special functions as primitive ideas; or the concept of number and definite numbers.
 
 4.1273 If we want to express in logical symbolism the general proposition “b is a successor of a” we need for this an expression for the general term of the formal series: aRb, (∃x) : aRx . xRb, (∃x,y) : aRx.xRy.yRb, ... The general term of a formal series can only be expressed by a variable, for the concept symbolized by “term of this formal series” is a formal concept. (This Frege and Russell overlooked; the way in which they express general propositions like the above is, therefore, false; it contains a vicious circle.) We can determine the general term of the formal series by 48 TRACTATUS LOGICO-PHILOSOPHICUS giving its first term and the general form of the operation, which generates the following term out of the preceding proposition.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
