Russell’s way of defining “equals” (=) doesn’t work because, by his definition, you can’t say that two things share all their properties. Even if this is never actually true, it’s still an important idea.

Basically, saying two things are exactly the same is nonsense, and saying something is the same as itself doesn’t say anything new.

So, instead of writing “f(a,b).a = b”, I write “f(a,a)” or “f(b,b)”.

And instead of “f(a,b). not a = b”, I just write “f(a,b)”.

Similarly, instead of “there exist x and y such that f(x,y) and x = y”, I write “there exists x such that f(x,x)”; and instead of “there exist x and y such that f(x,y) and not x = y”, I write “there exist x and y such that f(x,y)”.

So, instead of Russell’s “there exist x and y such that f(x,y)”, I write “there exist x and y such that f(x,y) or there exists x such that f(x,x)”.

Also, instead of “for all x, if fx then x = a”, I write something like “if there exists x such that fx, then fa, and there do not exist x and y with fx and fy”.

The statement “only one x satisfies f” means “there exists x with fx and there are no x and y both satisfying f”.

Therefore, the equals sign (=) isn’t really needed in logical notation.

We also see that statements like “a = a”, “if a = b and b = c then a = c”, “for all x, x = x”, or “there exists x such that x = a” can’t be written properly in logical notation.

Because of this, all problems that come from these kinds of fake statements go away.

This is the place to solve all problems that come from Russell’s “Axiom of Infinity”.

What the axiom of infinity is really about is saying that there are infinitely many names with different meanings.

Sometimes people want to use expressions like “a = a” or “if p then p”. This happens when talking about basic ideas like “Proposition” or “Thing”.

Russell, in his *Principles of Mathematics*, used the nonsense “p is a proposition” as “p implies p” in symbols. He put this as a starting point before some statements to show that the places where arguments go can only be filled by propositions.
