They all share the same basic structure. (Like in the story with the two young men, their two horses, and their lilies—they’re all connected in some way.) A statement can show a fact because it uses signs to represent objects. The logical “constants” aren’t shown by signs but are part of the statement just like they are part of the fact. The statement and the fact have to share the same logical pattern, which can’t be shown because it has to be something they both have in common.

Mr. Wittgenstein says that everything truly philosophical belongs to what can only be shown, to what is shared between a fact and its logical picture. This means that nothing fully correct can be said in philosophy. Every philosophical statement is kind of bad grammar, and the best we can do in philosophy is help people see that talking philosophically is a mistake. “Philosophy isn’t a natural science.

(The word ‘philosophy’ must mean something higher or lower, but not just another natural science.) Philosophy’s job is to clear up our thoughts logically. It’s not a theory but an activity. A philosophical work is mostly about explaining things clearly. The goal of philosophy isn’t to come up with many philosophical statements but to make ideas clear. Philosophy should clarify and sharply separate thoughts that would otherwise be confusing or unclear” (4.111 and 4.112). Because of this, the things we need to say to help understand Wittgenstein’s theory are actually things his theory says are meaningless.

With that in mind, we’ll try to explain the picture of the world behind his system.

The world is made up of facts. Facts can’t really be defined exactly, but we can say facts are what make statements true or false. Facts might have parts that are also facts or might not. For example, “Socrates was a wise Athenian” includes two facts: “Socrates was wise” and “Socrates was an Athenian.” A fact with no parts that are facts is called a Sachverhalt by Wittgenstein. This is the same as an atomic fact. An atomic fact doesn’t have smaller facts inside it, but it does have parts. For example, the atomic fact “Socrates is wise” has the parts “Socrates” and “wise.” If we break down an atomic fact as much as possible (theoretically, not practically), the parts we get are called “simples” or “objects.”
