Some things might seem like exceptions, such as “p is a very complicated statement” or “p is a statement about Socrates.” But Mr. Wittgenstein says these aren’t really exceptions. He thinks every job a statement does is actually a truth-function. That means if we understand truth-functions in general, we can explain all statements using just simple basic statements. Wittgenstein then shows how to do this.

Dr. Sheffer proved that all truth-functions from a group of statements can be made using just two functions: “not-p or not-q” or “not-p and not-q.” Wittgenstein uses the second one, “not-p and not-q,” assuming we know Dr. Sheffer’s work. It’s easy to see how other truth-functions come from “not-p and not-q.” For example, “not-p and not-p” is the same as “not-p,” so we get negation (saying something is false) from it. Then we can define “p or q” because it’s the opposite of “not-p and not-q.” More details on building other truth-functions are in the start of Principia Mathematica. This works well when the statements we use are listed one by one.

But Wittgenstein goes further. He finds a way to handle general statements, where the statements we use aren’t listed one by one but are all the ones that fit some rule. For example, let fx be a function that gives a statement like “x is human.” Then all the fx statements form a set. We can use “not-p and not-q” to say all these fx statements are false at the same time. This means “fx is false for every x,” which in logic is written “fx is false for all x.” The opposite of this means “there is at least one x for which fx is true,” written as “(∃x). fx.” If we start with not-fx instead of fx, we get “fx is true for all x,” written as “(x). fx.” Wittgenstein’s way of handling these general statements is different from earlier methods because the general idea only comes from picking which statements we look at. After that, making truth-functions works just like it does when we have a fixed list of statements like p, q, r...

At this point, Wittgenstein doesn’t fully explain his symbols in the text.
