” It is not contended by Wittgenstein that we can actually isolate the simple or have empirical knowledge of it. It is a logical necessity demanded by theory, like an electron. His ground for maintaining that there must be simples is that every complex presupposes a fact. It is not necessarily assumed that the complexity of facts is finite; even if every fact consisted of an infinite number of atomic facts and if every atomic fact consisted of an infinite number of objects there would still be objects and atomic facts (4.2211). The assertion that there is a certain complex reduces to the assertion that its constituents are related in a certain way, which is the assertion of a fact: thus if we give a name to the complex the name only has meaning in virtue of the truth of a certain proposition, namely the proposition asserting the relatedness of the constituents of the complex. Thus the naming of complexes presupposes propositions, while propositions presupposes the naming of simples. In this way the naming of simples is shown to be what is logically first in logic.
 
 The world is fully described if all atomic facts are known, together with the fact that these are all of them. The world is not described by merely naming all the objects in it; it is necessary also to know the atomic facts of which these objects are constituents. Given this total of atomic facts, every true proposition, however complex, can theoretically beinferred. Aproposition(trueorfalse)assertinganatomicfactiscalled an atomic proposition. All atomic propositions are logically independent of each other. No atomic proposition implies any other or is inconsistent with any other. Thus the whole business of logical inference is concerned with propositions which are not atomic. Such propositions may be called molecular.
 
 Wittgenstein’stheoryofmolecularpropositionsturnsuponhistheory of the construction of truth-functions.
 
 A truth-function of a proposition p is a proposition containing p and such that its truth or falsehood depends only upon the truth or falsehood of p, and similarly a truth-function of several propositions p, q, r...is one containing p, q, r...and such that its truth or falsehood depends only upon the truth or falsehood of p, q, r... It might seem at first sight as though there were other functions of propositions besides truthfunctions; such, for example, would be “A believes p,” for in general A will believe some true propositions and some false ones: unless he is an exceptionallygiftedindividual,wecannotinferthatpistruefromthefact that he believes it or that p is false from the fact that he does not believe 11 INTRODUCTION it.
 
