Systematic representation of all synthetic principles of the appearances which constitute the matter of outer experience; hence those pure synthetic judgments are related, although only medi足 ately, to possible experience, or rather to its possibility itself, and on that alone is the objective validity of their synthesis grounded.
 
 Thus since experience, as empirical synthesis, is in its possibility the only kind of cognition that gives all other synthesis reality, as a priori cognition it also possesses truth (agreement with the object)O only inso- B 197 far as it contains nothing more than what is necessary for the synthetic unity of experience in general. AI58 The supreme principleb of all synthetic judgments is, therefore: Every object stands under the necessaty conditions of the synthetic unity of the manifold of intuition in a possible experience.
 
 In this way synthetic a priori judgments are possible, if we relate the formal conditions of a priori intuition, the synthesis of the imagination, and its necessary unity in a transcendental apperception to a possible cognition of experience in general, and say: The conditions of the pos足 sibility of experience in general are at the same time conditions of the possibility of the objects of experience, and on this account have ob足 jective validity in a synthetic judgment a priori.' Of the System of the Principles of Pure Understanding Third Section Systematic representation of all synthetic principles of pure understanding.
 
 That there are principles anywhere at all is to be ascribed solely to the pure understanding, which is not only the faculty of rules in regard to B 198 that which happens, but is rather itself the source of the principles in accordance with which everything (that can even come before us as an A 159 object) necessarily stands under rules, since, without such rules, ap足 pearances could never amount to cognition of an object corresponding to them. Even laws of nature, if they are considered as principles of the empirical use of the understanding, at the same time carry with them an expression of necessity, thus at least the presumption of determination by grounds that are a priori and valid prior to all experience.57 But witha Object Principium b C The following two notes are entered in Kant's copy at A 158: "How are the objects determined in accordance with the concept priori?" (E LXII, a p. 28; 23:28) "The [principles] can never be proved from mere concepts, as if they dealt with things in themselves, but can only be proved from the possibility of the perception of things." (E LXIII, p. 29; 2p8) 283 Doctrine of Elements.
 
