Which means this: I can intuit all objects only in my­ 1.
 
 self and in representations found in my own subject, and all possible objects of my intuition stand in relation to each other in accordance with the special form of this intuition . . .
 
 4. All things and all states of things have their determinate position in time. For through the unity of inner sense they must have their determinate relation to all other putative objects of intuition.
 
 I '7 He then makes parallel claims about space -space is not only our unique form for representing objects external to ourselves, but also uni­ fied in the sense that every object must be assigned a determinate posi­ tion in relation to all others in it: Space is nothing but the intuition of mere form even without given matter, thus pure intuition. It is a single [einzelne] representation on account of the unity of the subject (and the capability), in which all representations of outer objects can be placed next to one another. lIS ' Finally, Kant suggests that the use of concepts of the understanding or rules associated with them is the necessary condition of assigning rep­ resentations or their objects their determinate positions in a unified space and/or time: We have no intuitions except through the senses; thus no other concepts can in­ habit the understanding except those which pertain to the disposition and order among these intuitions. These concepts must contain what is universal, and rules. The faculty of rules in abstracto: the learned understanding; in concreto: the common understanding. The common understanding has preference in all cases, where the rules must be abstracted a posteriori from the cases; but where they have their origin a priori, there it does not obtain at alJ.r'9 This remark presupposes that concepts are used only in application to intuitions, the thesis that Kant had not yet seen in I 770 but that was to become the hallmark of the Critique of Pure Reason, with its famous statement that "Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions with­ out concepts are blind" (ASI /B 75). It further suggests that the particu­ lar function that the a priori concepts of the understanding play is to serve as rules for establishing "disposition and order" among intuitions of objects, though Kant does not yet explain why concepts should be necessary for this purpose or how concepts function as rules for this purpose. Finally, Kant suggests that even the ordinary use of abstraction for the production of empirical concepts depends upon the use of the a priori concepts of the understanding for the establishment of this "dis­ position and order," even though these a priori concepts may seem "learned" rather than "common." This is an important point, because it implies that the theory of a priori concepts to be worked out in the Critique of Pure Reason is not, as it has sometimes been seen, a theory of 50 Introduction the foundations of natural science considered as separate from everyday life, but rather a theory of the foundations of science as continuous with all of our knowledge.
 
