Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III A 5801 B 608 Now if we pursue this idea of ours so far as to hypostatize it, then we will be able to determine the original being through the mere concept of the highest reality as a being that is singular,a simple, all-sufficient, eternal, etc., in a word, we will be able to determine it in its uncondi­ tioned completeness through all predications.b The concept of such a being is that of God thought of in a transcendental sense, and thus the ideal of pure reason is the object of a transcendental theology, just as I have introduced it above.90 Meanwhile this use of the transcendental idea would already be over­ stepping the boundaries of its vocationC and its permissibility. For on it, as the concept of all reality, reason only grounded the thoroughgoing determination of things in general, without demanding that this reality should be given objectively, and itself constitute a thing. This latter is a mere fiction, through which we encompass and realize the manifold of our idea in an ideal, as a particular being; for this we have no warrant, not even for directly assuming the possibility of such a hypothesis, just as none of the consequences flowing from such an ideal have any bear­ ing, nor even the least influence, on the thoroughgoing determination of things in general, on behalf of which alone the idea was necessary.
 
 As8r/B609 It is not enough to describe the procedure of our reason and its di­ alectic; one must also seek to discover its sources, so as to be able to ex­ plain this illusion itself, as a phenomenon of the understanding; for the ideal we are talking about is grounded on a natural and not a merely ar­ bitrary idea. Therefore I ask: How does reason come to regard all the possibility of things as derived from a single possibility, namely that of the highest reality, and even to presuppose these possibilities as con­ tained in a particular original being?
 
 The answer suggests itself on the basis of the discussions of the Tran­ scendental Analytic themselves. The possibility of objects of sense is a relationd of these objects to our thought, in which something (namely, the empirical form) can be thought a priori, but what constitutes the ma­ terial, the reality in appearance (corresponding to sensation) has to be given; without that nothing at all could be thought and hence no possi­ bility could be represented.91 Now an object of sense can be thoroughly determined only if it is compared with all the predicates of appearance and is represented through them either affirmatively or negatively. But because that which constitutes the thing itself (in appearance), namely the real, has to be given, without which it could not be thought at all, but As82/B6ro that in which the real in all appearances is given is the one all-encoma einig b Priidicamente, a term that (at 82 / ro8) Kant seems to identify with the categories.
 
 A B , Bestimmung Verhiiltnis d 558 Section III.
 
