Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. II. <A> the logical possibility of the concept (since it does not contradict itself) for the transcendentala possibility of things (where an object corre­ sponds to the concept) can deceive and satisfy only the inexperienced.b eThere is something strange and even nonsensical in there being a concept that must have some significance but is not capable of defini­ tion. Only in the case of the categories is there this special circumA245 stance, that they can have a determinate significance and relation to any object only by means of the general sensible condition, but that this condition is omitted from the pure category, since this can contain nothing but the logical function for bringing the manifold under a concept. From this function, i.e., the form of the concept alone, how­ ever, nothing can be cognized and distinguished about which objectd belongs under it, since abstraction has been made from just the sensi­ ble condition under which objects can belong under it at all. Hence the categories require, beyond the pure concept of the understanding, de­ terminations of their application to sensibility in general (schema), and without these are not concepts through which an object can be cog­ nized and distinguished from others, but only so many ways of think­ ing of an object for possible intuitions and of giving it its significance in accordance with some function of the understanding (under the req­ uisite conditions), i.e., of defining it: they themselves cannot there­ fore be defined. The logical functions of judgment in general-unity and multiplicity, affirmation and negation, subject and predicate -can­ not be defined without falling into a circle, since the definition would itself have to be a judgment and therefore already contain these func­ tions of judgment and therefore already contain these functions. The pure categories, however, are nothing other than the representations of things in general insofar as the manifold of their intuition must be thought through one or another of these logical functions: Magnitude is the determination that must be thought only through a judgment A246 that has quantity (judicium commune e); reality, that which can be thought only through an affirmative judgment; substance, that which, in relation to the intuition, must be the ultimate subject of all other determinations. But now what sorts of things those are in regard to which one must use one function rather than another remains hereby entirely undetermined: thus without the condition of sensible intu­ ition, the synthesis of which they contain, the categories have no rela­ tion at all to any determinate object,! thus they cannot define one, and a Altered in Kant's copy of the first edition to "real" (rea/en) (E CXXI, p. 41; 23:48).
 
 b At this point the second edition adds a footnote; see 302-3n.
 
 B ,. This paragraph is omitted in the second edition.
 
 Object d , general judgment f Object 344 Chapter III.
 
