With regard to that which is simultaneous there is always a connection (condi­ tion of perception).
 
 But it can be accompanied with all sorts of things; however, what is to be con­ sidered as objectively connected is a mutual determination of the manifold by one another.
 
 If there were not something that always was, thus something permanent, stabile, there would be no firm point or determination of the point in time, thus no per­ ception, i.e., determination of something in time.
 
 If there were not something that always preceded an occurrence, then among the many things that precede there would be nothing with which that which oc­ curs belongs in a series, it would have no determinate place in the series.
 
 Through the rules of perception the objects of the senses are determinable in time; in intuition they are merely given as appearances. In accordance with those rules there is found an entirely different series than that in which the ob­ jectwas given.'l2 Here Kant suggests that what he has previously called the "exposition of appearances" is the determination of a definite order and position for occurrences in time. He does not say whether the occurrences are rep­ resentations in a subject or states of objects, but in either case to order them in time is to determine whether at some particular point or period in time such occurrences succeed one another in a specific order or are simultaneous with each other. In order to determine this, Kant holds, we have to posit the existence of objects that endure through time -substances -and the existence of determinate patterns of causa­ tion and interaction among them. Thus we need to use the fundamen­ tal categories of substance, causation, and interaction for time­ determination or the "exposition of appearances." Kant does not explain in any detail why we must use these categories to accomplish this end -a fuller explanation of that will await the sec­ tion of the published Critique called the "Analogies of Experience" (A 176-2I8/B 2 18-65). In the Critique, the "Analogies" follow a separate argument for the universal and necessary validity of the categories from certain more abstract conceptions of both objects and apperception, which he calls the "Transcendental Deduction of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding" (A 84-1 30 and B 116-69). Since in Kant's original sketches of the central argument of his planned Critique there is no sep­ aration between the discussion of apperception, objects, and the expo­ sition of appearances, and the original discussion of the relation between apperception and objects already has the form of an analogy, it is an enduring question for the interpretation of the Critique whether or not these two sections have rendered asunder considerations that should have remained joined. This is a question for any reader of the 55 Introduction Critique to consider in trying to analyze the relation between the "Transcendental Deduction" and the "Analogies.
 
