Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III world of sense; but since I put that transcendental presupposition to no other use but a relative one -namely that it should give the substratum for the greatest possible unity of experience -I may very well think a being that I distinguish from the world through properties which be­ long solely to the world of sense. For by no means do I require, nor am I warranted in requiring, cognition of this object of my idea as to what it might be in itself; for I have no concepts for that, and even the conA679/ B 707 cepts of reality, substance, causality, indeed even necessity in existence, lose all meaninga and are empty titles for concepts without any content when with them I venture outside the field of sense. I think only the re­ lationb which a being, in itself unknown to me, has to the greatest sys­ tematic unity of the world-whole, and this is solely in order to make it into the schema of a regulative principle< for the greatest possible em­ pirical use of my reason.
 
 If we now cast our glance over the transcendental object of our idea, then we see that we cannot presuppose its actuality in accordance with the concepts of reality, substance, causality, etc., in itself, because these concepts have not the least application to something that is entirely dif­ ferent from the world of sense. Thus reason's suppositiond of a highest being as the supreme cause is thought merely relatively, on behalf of the systematic unity of the world of sense, and it is a mere Something in the idea, of which we have no concept of what it is in itself. This also ex­ plains why, in relation to that which is given to the senses as existing, we need the idea of a being which is necessary in itself, but can never have the least concept of this being and its absolute necessity.
 
 Now we can place the result of the entire Transcendental Dialectic A680/ B 708 clearly before our eyes, and precisely determine the final aim of the ideas of pure reason, which become dialectical only through misunder­ standing and carelessness. Pure reason is in fact concerned with noth­ ing but itself, and it can have no other concern, because what is given to it is not objects to be unified for the concept of experience, but cog­ nitions of understanding to be unified for the concept of reason, i.e., to be connected in one principle.' The unity of reason is the unity of a sys­ tem, and this systematic unity does not serve reason objectively as a principle, extending it over objects, but subjectively as a maxim, in order to extend it over all possible empirical cognition of objects.
 
 Nevertheless, the systematic connection that reason can give to the em­ pirical use of the understanding furthers not only its extension but also a Bedeutung Relation b , Princip d Supposition , Princip 610 Section VII.
 
