Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II A448/B476 Remark on the Third Antinomy 1. On the Thesis The transcendental idea of freedom is far from constituting the whole content of the psychological concept of that name, which is for the most part empirical, but constitutes only that of the absolute spontaneity of an action, as the real ground of its imputability; but this idea is never­ theless the real stumbling block for philosophy, which finds insuperable difficulties in admitting this kind of unconditioned causality. Hence that in the question of freedom of the will which has always put specu­ lative reason into such embarrassment is really only transcendental, and it concerns only whether a faculty of beginning a series of succes­ sive things or states from itself is to be assumed. How such a faculty a is possible is not so necessary to answer, since with causality in accor­ dance with natural laws we likewise have to be satisfied with the pri­ a ori cognition that such a thing must be presupposed, even though we do not in any way comprehend how it is possible for one existence to be posited through another existence, and must in this case keep solely to experience. We have really established this necessity of a first beginning of a series of appearances from freedom only to the extent that this is required to make comprehensible an origin of the world, since one can take all the subsequent states to be a result of mere natural laws. But beA450/B478 cause the faculty of beginning a series in time entirely on its ownb is thereby proved (though no insight into it is achieved), now we are per­ mitted also to allow that in the course of the world different series may begin on their own as far as their causality is concerned, and to ascribe to the substances in those series the faculty of acting from freedom.
 
 One should not, however, be stopped here by a misunderstanding, namely, that since a successive series in the world can have only a com­ paratively first beginning, because a state of the world must always pre­ cede it, perhaps no absolutely first beginning of the series is possible selbst fl von b selbst von 486 Section II.
 
