Ch. I. Sec. III rest only on facta, which are contingent, but not on principles a that could A 7681 B 796 effect a necessary renunciation of the right to dogmatic assertions.
 
 Further, since he does not know the difference between the well founded claims of the understanding and the dialectical pretensions of reason, against which his attacks are chiefly directed, reason, whose en­ tirely peculiar momentum is not in the least disturbed, but only hin­ dered, does not feel that the room for its expansion is cut off, and although it is annoyed here and there it can never be entirely dissuaded from its efforts. For it is armed to parry attacks, and is all the more ob­ stinate in attempting to carry out its demands. But a complete overview of its entire capacity and the conviction arising from that of the cer­ tainty of a small possession, even in case of the vanity of higher claims, put an end to all dispute, and move it to rest satisfied with a limited but undisputed property.
 
 Against the uncritical dogmatist, who has not measured the sphere of his understanding and thus has not determined the boundaries of his possible cognition in accordance with principles,b who therefore does not already know in advance how much he is capable of but thinks he can find it out through mere experiments, these skeptical attacks are not merely dangerous but are even disastrous. For ifhe is hit in a single asA769/B797 sertion that he cannot justify or make plausible by means of principles,c then suspicion falls upon all of them, however persuasive they might otherwise be.
 
 And thus the skeptic is the taskmaster of the dogmatic sophist for a healthy critique of the understanding and of reason itself. When he has gotten this far he does not have to fear any further challenge, for he then distinguishes his possession from that which lies entirely outside it, to which he makes no claims and about which he cannot become in­ volved in any controversies. Thus the skeptical procedure is not, to be sure, itself satisfying for questions of reason, but it is nevertheless preparatory for arousing its caution and showing it fundamental means for securing it in its rightful possessions.
 
 First Chapter Third Section The discipline of pure reason with regard to hypotheses.
 
 Since, then, through the critique of our reason we finally know that we cannot in fact know anything at all in its pure and speculative use, a Principien b Principien C Principien 658 The discipline of pure reason in hypotheses should it not then open up an all the wider field for hypotheses, since it is at least granted to reason to invent" and to opine, if not to assert?
 
