On the pure concepts of the understanding ground in some rule of the understanding, which, as so often happens, has merely been falsely interpreted. These supposedly transcendental predicates of things are nothing other than logical requisites and crite- B 114 ria of all cognition of things in general, and ground it in the categories of quantity, namely, the categories of unity, plurality, and totality; yet these categories must really have been taken as material, as belonging to the possibility of things itself, when in fact they should have been used in a merely formal sense, as belonging to the logical requirements for every cognition; thus these criteria of thinking were carelessly made into properties of things in themselves. In every cognition of an objecta there is, namely, unity of the concept, which one can call qualitative unity insofar as by that only the unity of the comprehensionb of the manifold of cognition is thought, as, say, the unity of the theme in a play, a speech, or a fable. Second, truth in respect of the consequences.
 
 The more true consequences from a given concept, the more indication of its objective reality. One could call this the qualitative plurality of the marks that belong to a concept as a common ground (not thought of in it as a magnitude). Third, finally, perfection, which consists in this plurality conversely being traced back to the unity of the concept, and agreeing completely with this one and no other one, which one can call qualitative completeness (totality). From this it is obvious that these logical criteria of the possibility of cognition in general transform the B I I 5 three categories of magnitude,c in which the unity in the generation of the magnituded must be assumed to be completely homogeneous, into a principle' with the quality of a cognition for the connection of het­ erogeneous elements of cognition into one consciousness also. Thus the criterion of the possibility of a concept (not of its object)! is the definition, in which the unity of the concept, the truth of everything that may initially be derived from it, and finally the completeness of everything that is drawn from it, constitute everything that is necessary for the production of the entire concept; or the criterion of a hypothesis " is also the intelligibility of the assumel ground of explanation or its unity (without auxiliary hypotheses), the truth (agreement with itself and with experience) of the consequences that are derived from it, and finally the completeness of the ground of explanation of these conse­ quences, which do not refer us back to anything more or less than was already assumed in the hypothesis, and which merely analytically give back a posteriori and agree with that which was thought synthetically a a Objects b Zusammenfassung , Grofe Quantum d , Princips f Objects 217 Doctrine of Elements.
 
