Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <B> the object of outer sense, since to the former only time pertains as the formal condition of its intuition, while to the latter space pertains also.
 
 But if one considers that the two kinds of objects are different not in­ wardly but only insofar as one of them appears outwardly to the other, B428 hence that what grounds the appearance of matter as thing in itself might perhaps not be so different in kind, then this difficulty vanishes, and the only difficulty remaining is that concerning how a community of substances is possible at all, the resolution of which lies entirely out­ side the field of psychology, and, as the reader can easily judge from what was said in the Analytic about fundamental powers and faculties, this without any doubt also lies outside the field of all human cognition.
 
 General remark concerning the transition from rational psychology to cosmology.
 
 The proposition "I think," or "I exist thinking," is an empirical propo­ sition. But such a proposition is grounded on empirical intuition, con­ sequently also on the object thought, as an appearance; and thus it seems as if, according to our theory, the whole, even in thinking, is completely transformed into appearance, and in such a way our con­ sciousness itself, as mere illusion, would in fact come down to nothing.o Thinking, taken in itself,b is merely the logical function and hence the sheer spontaneity of combining the manifold of a merely possible intuition; and in no way does it present the subject of consciousness as B429 appearance, merely because it takes no account at all of the kind of in­ tuition, whether it is sensible or intellectual. In this way I represent my­ self to myself neither as I am nor as I appear to myself, but rather I think myself only as I do every objectd in general from whose kind of intuition I abstract. If here I represent myself as subject of a thought or even as ground of thinking, then these ways of representing do not signify the categories of substance or cause, for these categories are those functions of thinking (of judging) applied to our sensible intuition, which would obviously be demanded if I wanted to cognize myself. But now I want to become conscious of myself only as thinking; I put to one side how my proper self is given in intuition, and then it could be a mere ap­ pearance that I think, but not insofar as I think; in the consciousness of myself in mere thinking I am the being itself, about which, however, nothing yet is thereby given to me for thinking.
 
 auf nichts gehen a b for sich , tauter Object d 456 On the paralogisms of pure reason <B> But the proposition "I think," insofar as it says only that I exist thinking, is not a merely logical function, but rather determines the subject (which is then at the same time an object)O in regard to existence, and this cannot take place without inner sense, whose intuition always makes available the objectb not as thing in itself but merely as appearance.
 
