Indeed, although Kant himself never cared much about the history of philosophy as a scholarly discipline, in the few pages of his "History of Pure Reason" he outlined the history of modern philosophy as the transcendence of empiricism and rational­ ism by his own critical philosophy, the pattern that we still use, al­ though of course we also have to add room to this pattern for the heirs and successors of Kant's own philosophy.
 
 With this analysis of the organization of the Critique of Pure Reason in hand, we now provide a brief resume of its contents.
 
 "Introduction": the idea of transcendental philosophy. Although Kant himself often suggests that the negative side of his project, the cri­ tique of dogmatic metaphysics, is the most important, the Critique pre­ sents Kant's positive doctrine of the a priori elements of human knowledge first. In the introduction, Kant argues that our mathemati­ cal, physical, and quotidian knowledge of nature requires certain judg­ ments that are "synthetic" rather than "analytic," that is, going beyond what can be known solely in virtue of the contents of the concepts in­ volved in them and the application of the logical principles of identity and contradiction to these concepts, and yet also knowable a priori, that is, independently of any particular experience since no particular expe­ rience could ever be sufficient to establish the universal and necessary validity of these judgments. He entitles the question of how synthetic a priori judgments are possible the "general problem of pure reason" (B 19), and proposes an entirely new science in order to answer it (AIO-16/B 24-30).
 
 This new science, which Kant calls "transcendental" (A 1 1 I B 25), does not deal directly with objects of empirical cognition, but investigates the conditions of the possibility of our experience of them by examining the mental capacities that are required for us to have any cognition of ob­ jects at all. Kant agrees with Locke that we have no innate knowledge, that is, no knowledge of any particular propositions implanted in us by God or nature prior to the commencement of our individual experi­ ence. I2 But experience is the product both of external objects affecting our sensibility and of the operation of our cognitive faculties in response to this effect (A I, B I), and Kant's claim is that we can have "pure" or a priori cognition of the contributions to experience made by the opera­ tion of these faculties themselves, rather than of the effect of external objects on us in experience. Kant divides our cognitive capacities into our receptivity to the effects of external objects acting on us and giving us sensations, through which these objects are given to us in empirical intuition, and our active faculty for relating the data of intuition by 6 Introduction thinking them under concepts, which is called understanding (A 191 B 33), and forming judgments about them.
 
