Critique of all speculative theology guarantees its correctness, and the principle a of such a systematic unity is also objective but in an indeterminate way (principium vagum):b not as a constitutive principle' for determining something in regard to its di足 rect object, but rather as a merely regulative principle and maxim for furthering and strengthening the empirical use of reason by opening up new paths into the infinite (the undetermined) with which the under足 standing is not acquainted, yet without ever being the least bit contrary to the laws of its empirical use.
 
 But reason cannot think this systematic unity in any other way than A 68 IIB 709 by giving its idea an object, which, however, cannot be given through any experience; for experience never gives an example of perfect systematic unity. Now this being of reason (ens rationis ratiocinatae)d is, to be sure, a mere idea, and is therefore not assumed absolutely and in itself as something actual, but is rather taken as a ground only problematically (because we cannot reach it through any concepts of the understanding), so as to regard all the connection of things in the world of sense as if they had their ground in this being of reason; but solely with the intention of grounding on it the systematic unity that is indispensable to reason and conducive in every way to empirical cognition of the understanding but can never be obstructive to it.
 
 One mistakes the significance of this idea right away if one takes it to be the assertion, or even only the presupposition, of an actual thinge to which one would think of ascribing the ground for the systematic con足 stitution of the world; rather, one leaves it entirely open what sort of constitution in itself this ground, which eludes our concepts, might have, and posits an idea only as a unique standpoint from which alone one can extend the unity that is so essential to reason and so salutary to the understanding; in a word, this transcendental thing is merely the A682/B7IO schema of that regulative principle! through which reason, as far as it can, extends systematic unity over all experience.
 
 The first objectg of such an idea is I myself, considered merely as thinking nature (soul). If I want to seek out the properties with which a thinking thing exists in itself, then I have to ask experience, and I can足 not even apply any of the categories to this object except insofar as its schema is given in sensible intuition. By this means, however, I will never attain to a systematic unity of all the appearances of inner sense.
 
 Thus instead of the concept of experience (of that which the soul actuPrincip a vague principle b Princip , "being of reason reasoned," i.e., an entity created by reason functioning rationally.
 
 d Sache , f Princip Object g 611 Doctrine of Elements.
 
