Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> through mere concepts or a priori intuitions, it is clear that from mere concepts no synthetic cognition but only merely analytic cognition can B 65 be attained. Take the proposition that with two straight lines no space at all can be enclosed, thus no figure is possible, and try to derive it from the concept of straight lines and the number two; or take the proposi­ tion that a figure is possible with three straight lines, and in the same way try to derive it from these concepts. All of your effort is in vain, and you see yourself forced to take refuge in intuition, as indeed geometry A48 always does. You thus give yourself an object in intuition; but what kind is this, is it a pure a priori intuition or an empirical one? If it were the latter, then no universally valid, let alone apodictic proposition could ever come from it: for experience can never provide anything of this sort. You must therefore give your object a priori in intuition, and ground your synthetic proposition on this. If there did not lie in you a faculty for intuiting a priori; if this subjective condition regarding form were not at the same time the universal a priori condition under which alone the object of this (outer) intuition is itself possible; if the object a (the triangle) were something in itself without relation to your subject: then how could you say that what necessarily lies in your subjective con­ ditions for constructing a triangle must also necessarily pertain to the triangle in itself? for you could not add to your concept (of three lines) l!66 something new (the figure) that must thereby necessarily be encoun­ tered in the object, since this is given prior to your cognition and not through it. If, therefore, space (and time as well) were not a mere form of your intuition that contains a priori conditions under which alone things could be outer objects for you, which are nothing in themselves without these subjective conditions, then you could make out absolutely nothing synthetic and a priori about outer objects.b It is therefore indu­ bitably certain and not merely possible or even probable that space and A49 time, as the necessary conditions of all (outer and inner) experience, are merely subjective conditions of all our intuition, in relation to which therefore all objects are mere appearances and not things given for themselves in this way; about these appearances, further, much may be said a priori that concerns their form but nothing whatsoever about the things in themselves that may ground them.
 
 'dI. For confirmation of this theory of the ideality of outer as well as inner sense, thus of all objectsd of the senses, as mere appearances, this comment is especially useful: that everything in our cognition that be­ longs to intuition (with the exception, therefore, of the feeling of pleaa Object Objecte b , From here to the end of the "Transcendental Aesthetic" added in the second edition.
 
 Objecte d 188 Section II.
 
