Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> But if we compare the thinking I not with matter but with the intel足 ligible that grounds the outer appearance we call matter, than because we know nothing at all about the latter, we cannot say that the soul is inwardly distinguished from it in any way at all.
 
 Accordingly, the simplicity of consciousness a is thus no acquaintance with the simple nature of our subject, insofar as this subject is supposed thereby to be distinguished from matter as a composite being.
 
 If this concept still does not serve to determine itb what is proper and distinctive to its nature even in the one case where it is useful, namely in the comparison of my self with objects of outer experience, one may A361 still pretend to know that the thinking I, the soul (a name for the tran足 scendental object of inner sense), is simple; nevertheless on this account this expression has no use at all that reaches to real objects, and hence it cannot extend our cognition in the least.
 
 Accordingly, the whole of rational psychology collapses along with its chief supports, and here as elsewhere we can have little hope of broad足 ening our insight through mere concepts without any relation to possi足 ble experience (still less through the mere subjective form of all our concepts, our consciousness); above all, since even the fundamental concept of a simple nature is of such a kind as cannot be encountered anywhere in experience, and hence there is thus no path at all by which to reach it as an objectively valid concept.
 
 Third paralogism of personality.
 
 What is conscious of the numerical identity of its Selfc in different times, is to that extent a person.
 
 Now the soul is etc.
 
 Thus it is a person.27 Criticism of the third paralogism of transcendental psychology.
 
 If I want to cognize through experience the numerical identity of an A 362 external object, then I will attend to what is persisting in its appearance, to which, as subject, everything else relates as a determination, and I will notice the identity of the former in the time in which the latter changes. But now I am an object of inner sense and all time is merely the form of inner sense. Consequently, I relate each and every one of das einfache Bewusstsein a b ihn -a masculine accusative pronoun whose antecedent and grammatical function in the sentence both remain unclear; it cannot grammatically refer to either "subject" or "consciousness" in the previous sentence, since both those nouns are neuter.
 
 , In the fourth edition: "seiner selbst." 422 Chapter L On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> my successive determinations to the numerically identical Self in all time, i.
 
