The antithetic of pure reason former burdens the understanding with the difficulty of seeking the an­ cestry of occurrences ever higher in the series of causes, because the causality in them is at every time conditioned, but it promises in com­ pensation a thoroughgoing and lawful unity of experience, while the miragea of freedom, on the contrary, though of course offering rest to the inquiring understanding in the chain of causes by leading it to an unconditioned causality that begins to act from itself, since it is itself blind, breaks away from the guidance of those rules by which alone a thoroughly connected experience is possible.
 
 II. Remark A449/B477 On the Antithesis The defender of the omnipotenceb of nature (transcendental physioc­ racy), in counteraction to the doctrine of freedom, would maintain his proposition against the sophisticale inferences of the latter, in the fol­ lowing way. If you do not assume anything mathematically first in the world as far as time is concerned, then it is also not necessary for you to seek for something dynamically first as far as causality is concerned. Whoever told you to think up an absolutely first state of the world, and hence an absolute beginning of the continuously elaps­ ing series of appearances, and then, so that your imagination might find some point at which to rest, to set a boundary to limitless nature? Since the substances in the world have always existed -at least the unity of ex­ perience makes such a presupposition necessary -there is no difficulty in also assuming that the change of their states, i.e., the series of their alterations, has always existed, and hence that no first beginning, whether mathematical or dynamical, need be sought. The possibility of such an infinite descent, without any first member to which the rest is merely subsequent, cannot, as to its possibility, be made comprehensi­ ble.d But if you reject this riddle of nature on this account, then you will see yourself compelled to dispense with many fundamental properties (fundamental powers) which you can just as little comprehend, and even the possibility of an alteration in general must become a stumbling block for you. For if you did not find through experience that alteration A4SI / B479 really exists, then you would never be able to imagine' priori how such a an uninterrupted sequence of being and not-being is possible.
 
 a Blendwerk b Allvermogenheit , verniinftelnden There is indeed an awkward redundancy in this sentence: "Die MiJglichkeit einer solchen d unendlichen Abstammung ...l asst sich, seiner MiJglichkeit nach, nicht begreijlich machen." ersinnen e 487 Doctrine of Elements.
 
