Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II mer, but rather it has to be through the magnitude of the empirical regress that I first make for myself a concept of the magnitude of the world. About this regress, however, I never know anything more than that from any given member of the series of conditions I must always proceed empirically to a higher (more remote) member. Thus by that means the magnitude of the whole of appearances is never determined absolutely; hence also one cannot say that this regress goes to infinity, because this would anticipate the members to which the regress has not yet attained, and would represent their multiplicity a as so great that no empirical synthesis can attain to it; consequently, it would detennine (though only negatively) the magnitude of the world prior to the regress, which is impossible. For the latter (in its totality) is not given to me through any intuition, hence its magnitude is not given at all prior to the regress. Accordingly, we can say nothing at all about the magnitude of the world in itself, not even that in it there is the regressus in infinitum,b but rather we must seek the concept of its magnitude only according to the rule determining the empirical regress in it. But this rule says nothing more than that however far we may have come in the series of empirical conditions, we should never assume an absolute A 520/ B 548 boundary, but rather we should subordinate every appearance as condi足 tioned to another as its condition, and thus we must progress further to this condition; this is a regressus in indefinitum,c which, because it deter足 mines no magnitude in the object,d can be distinguished clearly enough from the regress in infinitum.
 
 Accordingly, I cannot say the world is infinite in past time or in space. For such a concept of magnitude, as a given infinity, is empirical, hence it is absolutely impossible in regard to the world as an object of sense. I will also not say that the regress from a given perception to everything bounding it in a series, in space and in past time, goes to in足 finity; for this presupposes the infinite magnitude of the world; nor will I say that it is finite; for an absolute boundary is likewise empirically impossible. Accordingly, I will be able to say nothing about the whole object of experience (the world of sense), but only something about the rule in accord with which experience, suitably to its object, is to be in足 stituted and continued.
 
 Thus to the cosmological question about the magnitude of the world, the first and negative answer is: The world has no first beginning in time and no outermost boundary in space.
 
 For in the opposite case, it would be bounded by empty time on the A 52 I / B 549 one side and by empty space on the other. Now since as appearance it a Menge infinite regress b , indefinite regress d Object 526 Section IX.
 
