Pt. II. Div. II. Transcendental Dialectic that recognizes no demarcations anywhere. Hence transcendental and transcendent are not the same. The principles of pure understanding we presented above should be only of empirical and not of transcendenB 353 tal use, i.e., of a use that reaches out beyond the boundaries of experi­ ence. But a principle that takes away these limits, which indeed bids us to overstep them, is called transcendent. If our critique can succeed in discovering the illusion in these supposed principles, then those princi­ ples that are of merely empirical use can be called, in opposition to them, immanent principles of pure understanding.
 
 Logical illusion, which consists in the mere imitation of the form of reason (the illusion of fallacious inferences) arises solely from a failure of attentiveness to the logical rule. Hence as soon as this attentiveness A297 is focused on the case before us, logical illusion entirely disappears.
 
 Transcendental illusion, on the other hand, does not cease even though it is uncovered and its nullity is clearly seen into by transcendental crit­ icism (e.g. the illusion in the proposition: "The world must have a be­ ginning in time"). The cause of this is that in our reason (considered subjectively as a human faculty of cognition) there lie fundamental rules and maxims for its use, which look entirely like objective principles, and through them it comes about that the subjective necessity of a certain connection of our concepts on behalf of the understanding is taken for an objective necessity, the determination of things in themselves. [This B 354 is] an illusion that cannot be avoided at all, just as little as we can avoid it that the sea appears higher in the middle than at the shores, since we see the former through higher rays of light than the latter, or even bet­ ter, just as little as the astronomer can prevent the rising moon from ap­ pearing larger to him, even when he is not deceived by this illusion.4 The transcendental dialectic will therefore content itself with uncov­ ering the illusion in transcendental judgments, while at the same time protecting us from being deceived by it; but it can never bring it about A298 that transcendental illusion (like logical illusion) should even disappear and cease to be an illusion. For what we have to do with here is a nat­ ural and unavoidable illusion a which itself rests on subjective princi­ ples and passes them off as objective, whereas logical dialectic in its dissolution of fallacious inferences has to do only with an error in fol­ lowing principles or with an artificial illusion that imitates them.s Hence there is a natural and unavoidable dialectic of pure reason, not one in which a bungler might be entangled through lack of acquain­ tance, or one that some sophist has artfully invented in order to confuse rational people, but one that irremediably attaches to human reason, so that even after we have exposed the mirageb it will still not cease to lead a Illusion Blendwerk b 386 Introduction our reason on with false hopes, continually propelling it into momen- B 355 tary aberrations that always need to be removed.
 
