Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III be regarded as such a thing, one could not answer: This thing here is the necessary being.
 
 It may well be allowed to assume the existence of a being of the highest sufficiency as the cause of all possible effects, in order to facili­ tate reason's search for the unity of its grounds of explanation. Yet to go so far as to say, Such a being exists necessarily, is no longer the mod­ est expression of an allowable hypothesis, but rather the impudent pre­ sumption of an apodictic certainty; for if one proposes to cognize something as absolutely necessary, then that cognition must also carry absolute necessity with it.
 
 The entire problem of the transcendental ideal comes to this: either to find a concept for the absolute necessity or to find the absolute ne­ cessity for the concept of some thing. If one can do the first, then one must be able to do the other too; for reason cognizes as absolutely nec­ essary only what is necessary from its concept. But both entirely tranA613/B641 scend all the utmost efforts to satisfy our understanding on this point, but also all attempts to make it content with its incapacity.
 
 The unconditioned necessity, which we need so indispensably as the ultimate sustainer of all things, is for human reason the true abyss. Even eternity -however awful the sublimity with which a HallerI06 might portray it -does not make such a dizzying impression on the mind; for eternity only lacks the duration of things, but it does not sustain that duration. One cannot resist the thought of it, but one also cannot bear it that a being that we represent to ourselves as the highest among all possible beings might, as it were, say to itself: "I am from eternity to eternity, outside me is nothing except what is something merely through my will; but whence then am I?" Here everything gives way beneath us, and the greatest perfection as well as the smallest, hovers without support before speculative reason, for which it would cost nothing to let the one as much as the other disappear without the least obstacle.
 
 Many forces of nature that express their existence only through cer­ tain effects remain inscrutable for us, for we cannot trace them far enough through observation. The transcendental objecta lying at the ground of appearances, and with it the ground why our sensibility has A614/ B 642 it rather than another supreme condition -these are and remain in­ scrutable for us, even though the thing itselfb is given, only we have no insight into it. An ideal of pure reason, however, cannot be called in­ scrutable, because it has to display no further credentials for its reality than the need of reason to complete all synthetic unity by means of it.
 
 Since it is not even given as a thinkable object, it is also not inscrutable a Object b Sache selbst 574 Section V.
 
