Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II <A> it were isolated and separated from it, then there would never arise any­ thing like cognition, which is a whole of compared and connected rep­ resentations. If therefore I ascribe a synopsis to sense, because it contains a manifold in its intuition, a synthesis must always correspond to this, and receptivity can make cognitions possible only if combined with spontaneity. This is now the ground of a threefold synthesis, which is necessarily found in all cognition: that, namely, of the apprehension of the representations, as modifications of the mind in intuition; of the re­ production of them in the imagination; and of their recognition in the concept.21 Now these direct us toward three subjective sources of cogni­ tion, which make possible even the understanding and, through the latA98 ter, all experience as an empirical product of understanding.
 
 Preliminary reminder The deduction of the categories is connected with so many difficulties, and necessitates such deep penetration into the primary grounds of the possibility of our cognition in general, that in order to avoid the long­ windedness of a complete theory and nevertheless not to omit anything in such a necessary inquiry, I have found it more advisable to prepare than to instruct the reader in the following four numbers, and only then to represent the exposition of these elements of the understanding sys­ tematically in the immediately following third section.a For this reason the reader should until then not be deterred by the obscurity that is ini­ tially unavoidable in a path that is thus far entirely unexplored, but which will, as I hope, be completely illuminated in that section.
 
 1.
 
 On the synthesis of apprehension in the intuition.
 
 Wherever our representations may arise, whether through the influ­ ence of external things or as the effect of inner causes, whether they have originated priori or empirically as appearances -as modifications a A99 of the mind they nevertheless belong to inner sense, and as such all of our cognitions are in the end subjected to the formal condition of inner sense, namely time, as that in which they must all be ordered, con­ nected, and brought into relations. This is a general remark on which one must ground everything that follows.
 
 22 Every intuition contains a manifold in itself, which however would not be represented as such if the mind did not distinguish the time in the succession of impressions on one another; for as contained in one a The third section, beginning at AIlS.
 
 228 Section II.
 
