The following series of notes shows that Kant spent much of his time in the next several years trying to work out his hunch that the categories can be shown to be a priori yet necessary conditions of all of our knowl­ edge of objects by showing that their use is the necessary condition of all determinate "disposition and order" of intuitions. These notes are assigned to the year 1775 because one of them is written on another let­ ter to Kant dated 20 May 1775. Although, as we saw, Kant had been moving toward the idea of a fundamental contrast between logical and real relations throughout the I760s, it is only in these notes that he first clearly links his fundamental philosophical problem with the distinction between judgments that are analytic and those that are synthetic yet priori. Kant asks under what conditions a predicate b can be predicated a of an object x that is also subsumed under another predicate In some a.
 
 cases, b can be predicated of any x of which a is predicated because the predicate b is already identical to or contained in a, and we have no need to consider or experience any particular in order to see that. In such x cases, a proposition of the form "All x's that are a are also b" would be true in virtue of "the principle of identity and contradiction," or a "merely logical" "principle of form rather than content," that is, it would be analytic. I20 If, however, the predicates and b can be related a to each other only through then the judgment is synthetic: "If I refer x, both predicates to x and only thereby to each other, then it is synthetic," and the predicates are in that case "not in a logical but in a real rela­ tion."I2I Kant also says that "In synthetic propositions the relation be­ tween the concepts is not really immediate (for this happens only in the case of analytic propositions), rather it is represented in the conditions of their concrete representation in the subject."I22 Kant does not say so explicitly, but he is clearly already assuming that propositions asserting that a priori concepts apply to the objects of sensibility will fall into this class of synthetic judgments expressing real relations.
 
 Kant's next step is to argue that there are three different ways in which synthetic judgments may be made. The object x by means of which we link predicates and b may be constructed in pure intuition, a it may simply be given in empirical intuition or appearance, or it may be "the sensible condition of the subject within which a perception is to be assigned its position."I23 Or, in another passage, he writes: is therefore the determinable (object) that I think through the concept and x a, b is its determination or the way in which it is determined. In mathematics, is x the construction of in experience it is the concretum, and with regard to an in­ herent representatio a n, or thought in general is the function of thinking in gen­ x eral in the subject.124 51 Introduction It is clear enough what Kant means by the first two options.
 
