Systematic representation of all synthetic principles imagination places one state before and the other after, not that the one state precedes the other in the object;a or, in other words, through the B 234 mere perception the objective relation oft he appearances that are suc足 ceeding one another remains undetermined. Now in order for this to be cognized as determined, the relation between the two states must be thought in such a way that it is thereby necessarily determined which of them must be placed before and which after rather than vice versa. The concept, however, that carries a necessity of synthetic unity with it can only be a pure concept of understanding, which does not lie in the per足 ception, and that is here the concept of the relation of cause and effect, the former of which determines the latter in time, as its conse足 quence,b and not as something that could merely precede in the imaginationc (or not even be perceived at all). Therefore it is only because we subject the sequence of the appearances and thus all alteration to the law of causality that experience itself, i.e., empirical cognition of them, is possible; consequently they themselves, as objects of experience, are possible only in accordance with this law.> dThe apprehension of the manifold of appearance is always succes- A 189 sive. The representations of the parts succeed one another. Whether they also succeed in the object is a second point for reflection, which is not contained in the first. Now one can, to be sure, call everything, and even every representation, insofar as one is conscious of it, an object;' only what this word is to mean in the case of appearances, not insofar B 235 as they are (as representations) objects,! but rather only insofar as they A 190 designate an objectl requires a deeper investigation. Insofar as they are, merely as representations, at the same time objects of consciousness, they do not differ from their apprehension, i.e., from their being taken up into the synthesis of the imagination, and one must therefore say that the manifold of appearances is always successively generated in the mind. If appearances were things in themselves, then no human being would be able to assess from the succession of representations how the manifold is combined in the object.h For we have to do only with our representations; how things in themselves may be (without regard to Objecte a Folge b , in der Einbildung Although the text common to the two editions resumes here, in his copy of the first edi足 d tion Kant crossed out the next fourteen paragraphs, through A2or/B 246, suggesting that at one point he had contemplated an extensive revision of the second analogy that he did not in the end undertake (E, p. 34).
 
 , Object f Objecte Object g Object h 305 Doctrine of Elements.
 
