On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> would never occur to anyone to take as an external cause what he has al­ ready recognized as a mere representation. According to our principles they would therefore have to direct their theory at this: that what is the true (transcendental) object of our outer sense could not be the cause of those representations (appearances) that we understand under the name of matter. Now since no one can claim with good ground to be ac- A39I quainted with anything of the transcendental cause of our representations of outer sense, any assertion about it is entirely groundless. But if the supposed improvers of the doctrine of physical influence, in accordance with the common way of representing a transcendental dualism, want to regard matter as such as a thing in itself (and not as the mere ap­ pearance of an unknown thing), and to direct their objection to showing that such an external object, which exhibits in itself no other causality than that of motion, could never be the efficient cause of representations, but rather that a third being must mediate between them in order to establish, if not reciprocity, then at least correspondence and harmony, then in that case they would have to begin their refutation by assuming in their dualism the JtQwtQv 1jJ£u60s;o of physical influence, and thus their objection would refute not so much the natural influence as their own dualistic presupposition. For all the difficulties that concern the combination of thinking nature with matter arise without exception solely from the surreptitious dualistic notionb that matter as such is not an appearance, i.e., a mere representation of the mind, which corresponds to an unknown object, but is rather ::In object in itself, as it exists outside us and independently of all sensibility.
 
 Thus no dogmatic objection can be made against the physical influ- A392 ence that is commonly assumed. For if the opponent assumes that matter and its motion are mere appearances and thus themselves only representations, then he can place the difficulty only in the fact that the unknown object of our sensibility could not be the cause of representations in us; a claim, however, for which he has not the least justification, because no one can decide about an unknown object what it can or cannot do. But according to our proof above, he must necessarily admit this transcendental idealism, unless he wants to hypostatize what are obviously representations and displace them outside himself, as true things.
 
 Nonetheless, a well-grounded critical objection can be made against the common doctrinal opinionc of physical influence. The sort of com­ munity that is claimed to occur between two species of substances, thinking and extended, is grounded on a crude dualism, and makes the latter substances, which are nothing but mere representations of the a primary falsity b Vorstellung , Lehrmeinung 437 Doctrine of Elements.
 
