One must nevertheless admit that the distinction of the two elements in our cog- A843/B871 nition, one ofw hich is in our power completely a priori but the other of which can be derived only from experience a posteriori, has remained very indistinct, even among professional thinkers, and hence the determination of the bounds of a special kind of cognition, and thus the genuine idea of a science with which human reason has so long and so intensively occupied itself, has never been accomplished. When it was said that metaphysics is the science of the first principlesa of human cognition,44 an entirely special kind of cognition was not thereby marked off, but only a rank in regard to generality, through which, therefore, it could not be clearly differentiated from empirical cognition; for even among empirical principlesb some are more general and therefore higher than others, and in the series of such a subordination (where one does not differentiate that which can be cognized completely a priori from that which can be cognized only a posteriori), where is one to make the cut that distinguishes the first part and highest members from the last part and the subordinate members?45 What would one say if chronology could designate the epochs of the world only by dividing them into the first centuries and the rest that follow them?
 
 One would ask, Do the fifth century, the tenth century, and so on also belong among the first ones?; likewise I ask, Does the concept of that which is extended belong to metaphysics? You answer, Yes! But what about that of body? Yes! And that of fluid body? You are stumped, for if A844/ B 872 it goes on this way, then everything will belong to metaphysics. From this one sees that the mere degree of subordination (the particular under the universal) cannot determine any boundaries for a science, but rather, in our case, only the complete heterogeneity and difference of origin can. But what obscured the fundamental idea of metaphysics from yet another side was that, as a priori cognition, it shows a certain homogeneity with mathematics, to which, as far as a priori origin is concerned, it is no doubt related; but the comparison between the kind of cognition from concepts in the former with the manner of judging a priori through the mere construction of concepts in the latter requires a difference between philosophical and mathematical cognition -thus a decided heterogeneity is revealed, which was always felt, as it were, but was never able to be brought to distinct criteria. Thus it has been the case until now that since philosophers themselves erred in the development of the idea of their science, its elaboration could have no determinate end and no secure guideline, and philosophers, with such arbitrarily designed projects, ignorant of the path they had to take, and a Principien b Principien 697 Doctrine of Method.
 
