Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II is an a priori law of nature; likewise the proposition "No necessity in na­ ture is blind, but is rather conditioned, consequently comprehensible B281 necessity" (non datur fatum).a Both are laws of the sort through which the play of alterations is subjected to a nature of things (as appear­ ances), or, what is the same thing, to the unity of the understanding, in which alone they can belong to an experience, as the synthetic unity of appearances. Both of these belong to the dynamical principles. The first is properly a consequence of the principle of causality (under the analo­ gies of experience). The second belongs to the principles of modality, which adds to the causal determination the concept of necessity, which, however, stands under a rule of understanding. The principle of conti­ nuity forbade any leap in the series of appearances (alterations) (in A229 mundo non datur saltus),b but also any gap or cleft between two appear­ ances in the sum of all empirical intuitions in space (non datur hiatus);C for one can express the proposition thus: "Nothing can enter experience that proves a vacuumd or even permits it as a part of empirical synthe­ sis." For as far as concerns the void that one might think of outside of the field of possible experience (the world), this does not belong to the jurisdiction of the mere understanding, which only decides about ques­ tions concerning the use of given appearances for empirical cognition, and it is a problem for ideal reason, which goes beyond the sphere of a B 282 possible experience and would judge about what surrounds and bounds this, and must therefore be considered in the transcendental dialectic.
 
 We could easily represent the order of these four propositions (in mundo non datur hiatus, non datur saltus, non datur casus, non daturf atum)' in ac­ cordance with the order of the categories, just like all principles of tran­ scendental origin, and show each its position, but the already practiced reader will do this for himself or easily discover the clue to it. However, they are all united simply in this, that they do not permit anything in empirical synthesis that could violate or infringe the understanding and the continuous connectiOIv of all appearances, i.e., the unity of its conA230 cepts. For it is in this alone that the unity of experience, in which all perceptions must have their place, is possible.
 
 Whether the field of possibility is greater than the field that contains everything actual, and whether the latter is in turn greater than the setg of that which is necessary, are proper questions, and can, to be sure, be n There is no fate.
 
 In the world there is no leap.
 
 b , There is no hiatus.
 
 d Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "The vacuum physicum is different from the vacuum metaphysicum, in which there is no effect at all." (E XCVII, p. 36; 23:33) , In the world there is no hiatus, there is no leap, there is no chance, there is no fate.
 
 f Zusammenhange Menge g 330 Section III.
 
