The idea of a moral world thus has objective reality, not as if it pertained to an object of an intelligible intuition (for we cannot even think of such a thing), but as pertaining to the sensible world, although as an object of pure reason in its practi­ cal use and a corpus mysticum of the rational beings in it, insofar as their free choice under moral laws has thoroughgoing systematic unity in it­ self as well as with the freedom of everyone else.
 
 This was the reply to the first of the two questions of pure reason that concern the practical interest: Do that through which you will become worthy to be happy. Now the second question asks: Now if! be- A809/B 837 have so as not to be unworthy ofh appiness, how may I hope thereby to partake of it? For the answer to this question, the issue is whether the principles a of pure reason that prescribe the law a priori also necessarily connect this hope with it.
 
 I say, accordingly, that just as the moral principlesb are necessary in accordance with reason in its practical use, it is equally necessary to as­ sume in accordance with reason in its theoretical use' that everyone has cause to hope for happiness in the same measure as he has made him­ self worthy of it in his conduct, and that the system of morality is there­ fore inseparably combined with the system of happiness, though only in the idea of pure reason.
 
 Now in an intelligible world, i.e., in the moral world, in the concept of which we have abstracted from all hindrances to morality (of the in­ clinations)' such a system of happiness proportionately combined with morality can also be thought as necessary, since freedom, partly moved and partly restricted by moral laws, would itself be the cause of the gen­ eral happiness, and rational beings, under the guidance of such princi­ ples,d would themselves be the authors of their own enduring welfare and at the same time that of others. But this system of self-rewarding morality is only an idea, the realization of which rests on the condition A8IO/ B 838 that everyone do what he should, i.e., that all actions of rational beings occur as if they arose from a highest will that comprehends all private choice in or under itself. But since the obligation from the moral law remains valid for each particular use of freedom even if others do not conduct themselves in accord with this law, how their consequences will be related to happiness is determined neither by the nature of the things in the world, nor by the causality of actions themselves and their relaa Principien b Principien , The second occurrence of "use" is added in the second edition.
 
 d Principien 679 Doctrine of Method.
 
