Ch. II. Sec. III Taking something to be true, or the subjective validity of judgment, has the following three stages in relation to conviction (which at the same time is valid objectively): having an opinion, believing, and knowing. Having an opinion is taking something to be true with the consciousness that it is subjectively as well as objectively insufficient. If taking something to be true is only subjectively sufficient and is at the same time held to be objectively insufficient, then it is called believing.
 
 Finally, when taking something to be true is both subjectively and ob­ jectively sufficient it is called knowing. Subjective sufficiency is called conviction (for myself), objective sufficiency, certainty (for everyone).
 
 I will not pause for the exposition of such readily grasped concepts.
 
 I must never undertake to have an opinion without at least know­ ing something by means of which the in itself merely problematic judg­ ment acquires a connection with truth which, although it is not complete, is nevertheless more than an arbitrary invention. Further­ more, the law of such a connection must be certain. For if in regard to this too I have nothing but opinion, then it is all only a game of imagi­ nation without the least relation to truth. In judging from pure reason, to have an opinion is not allowed at all. For since it will not be supA823 / B 85 I ported on grounds of experience, but everything that is necessary should be cognized a priori, the principle of connection requires uni­ versality and necessity, thus complete certainty, otherwise no guidance to the truth is forthcoming at all. Hence it is absurd to have an opinion in pure mathematics: one must know, or else refrain from all judgment.
 
 It is just the same with the principles of morality, since one must not venture an action on the mere opinion that something is allowed, but must know this.
 
 In the transcendental use of reason, on the contrary, to have an opin­ ion is of course too little, but to know is also too much. In a merely speculative regard, therefore, we cannot judge at all here, for subjective grounds for taking something to be true, such as those that can produce belief, deserve no approval in speculative questions, where they neither remain free of all empirical assistance nor allow of being communicated to others in equal measure.
 
 Only in a practical relation, however, can taking something that is theoretically insufficient to be true be called believing,36 This practical aim is either that of skill or of morality, the former for arbitrary and contingent ends, the latter, however, for absolutely necessary ends.
 
 Once an end is proposed, then the conditions for attaining it are hy­ pothetically necessary. This necessity is subjectively but still only com­ A824/ B 852 paratively sufficient if! do not know ofa ny other conditions at all under which the end could be attained; but it is sufficient absolutely and for a Princip 686 On having opinions, knowing, and believing everyone if I know with certainty that no one else can know of any other conditions that lead to the proposed end.
 
