All interest of my reason (the speculative as well as the practical) is united in the following three questions: 1. What can I know? A8oSlB833 2. What should I do?
 
 3. What may I hope?
 
 The first question is merely speculative. We have (as I flatter myself) already exhausted all possible replies to it, and finally found that with which reason must certainly satisfy itself and with which, if it does not look to the practical, it also has cause to be content; but from the two great ends to which this entire effort of pure reason was really directed we remain just as distant as if, out of a concern for comfort, we had de­ clined this labor at the outset. If, therefore, the issue is knowledge, then this much at least is certain and settled, that we can never partake of knowledge with respect to those two problems.
 
 The second question is merely practical. As such, to be sure, it can belong to pure reason, but in that case it is not transcendental, but moral, and thus it cannot be in itself a subject for our critique.
 
 The third question, namely, "If I do what I should, what may I then hope?" is simultaneously practical and theoretical, so that the practical leads like a clue to a reply to the theoretical question and, in its highest form, the speculative question. For all hope concerns happiness, and with respect to the practical and the moral law it is the very same as what knowledge and the natural law is with regard to theoretical cognition of things. The former finally comes down to the inference that A8061B834 something is (which determines the ultimate final end) because something ought to happen; the latter, that something is (which acts as the supreme cause) because something does happen.
 
 Happiness is the satisfaction of all of our inclinations (extensive,a with regard to their manifoldness, as well as intensive,b with regard to degree, andc also protensive, d with regard to duration). The practical law from the motive of happiness I call pragmatic (rule of prudence); but that which is such that it has no other motive than the worthiness to be happy I call moral (moral law)! The first advises us what to do if we want to partake of happiness; the second commands how we should be­ have in order even to be worthy of happiness. The first is grounded on a extensively b intensively , In the first edition, "as." d protensively , moralisch (Sittengesetz) 677 Doctrine of Method.
 
