° I understand by an analytic of concepts not their analysis, or the usual procedure of philosophical investigations, that of analyzingh the content of concepts that present themselves and bringing them to distinctness, but rather the much less frequently attempted analysisC of the faculty of understanding itself, in order to research the possibility of priori a A66 concepts by seeking them only in the understanding as their birthplace and analyzing its pure use in general; for this is the proper business of B 91 a transcendental philosophy; the rest is the logical treatment of cona The following notes appear at this point in Kant's copy of the first edition: "We remarked above that experience consists of synthetic propositions, and how synthetic a posteriori propositions are possible is not to be regarded as a question re­ quiring a solution, since it is a fact.
 
 "Now it is to be asked how this fact is possible.
 
 "Experience consists of judgments, but it is to be asked whether these empirical judgments do not in the end presuppose a priori (pure) judgments. The analysis [Analysis] of experience contains, first, its analysis [Zergleiderung] insofar as judgments are in it; second, beyond the a posteriori concepts also priori concepts.
 
 a "The problem is: How is experience possible? 1. vVhat does the understanding do in judgments in general? 2. What do the senses do in empirical judgments? 3. In em­ pirical cognition, what does the understanding, applied to the representations of the senses, do in order to bring forth a cognition of objects [Objecte]?
 
 "One sees at first that experience is only possible through synthetic pri01'i propo­ a sitions. Hence a priori principles [Principien] are 1. immanent: in accordance with use; 2. it is to be asked, whether they are also transcendent.
 
 "The test for whether something is also experience, i.e., a fact, is as it were experi­ mentation with the universal propositions under which the particular empirical judg­ ment belongs. If the latter cannot stand under a universal rule for judging, if no concept can be made out of that, then it is a vitium subreptioni s [vicious fallacy]. Why in supersti­ tion and credulity." (E XXIXII, pp. 21-2; 23:24-5) zergliedern b , Zergliederung 202 Div.
 
