Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II that which concerns the fact (quid facti), and since they demand proof of both, they call the first, that which is to establish the entitlement or the legal claim, the deduction.'s We make use of a multitude of em­ pirical concepts without objection from anyone, and take ourselves to be justified in granting them a sense and a supposed signification even without any deduction, because we always have experience ready at B II7 hand to prove their objective reality. But there are also concepts that have been usurped, such as fortune and fate, which circulate with al­ most universal indulgence, but that are occasionally called upon to es­ tablish their claim by the question quid juris, and then there is not a little embarrassment about their deduction because one can adduce no A8S clear legal ground for an entitlement to their use either from experience or from reason.
 
 Among the many concepts, however, that constitute the very mixed fabric of human cognition, there are some that are also destineda for pure use a priori (completely independently of all experience), and these always require a deduction of their entitlement, since proofs from ex­ perience are not sufficient for the lawfulness of such a use, and yet one must know how these concepts can be related to objectsb that they do not derive from any experience. I therefore call the explanation of the way in which concepts can relate to objects a priori their transcenden­ tal deduction, and distinguish this from the empirical deduction, which shows how a concept is acquired through experience and reflec­ tion on it, and therefore concerns not the lawfulness but the fact from which the possession has arisen.
 
 B I 18 Now we already have two sorts of concepts of an entirely different kind,c which yet agree with each other in that they both relate to objects completely a priori, namely the concepts of space and time, as forms of sensibility, and the categories, as concepts of the understanding. To seek an empirical deduction of them would be entirely futile work, for what A86 is distinctive in their nature is precisely that they are related to their ob­ jects without having borrowed anything from experience for their rep­ resentation. Thus if a deduction of them is necessary, it must always be transcendental.
 
 Nevertheless, in the case of these concepts, as in the case of all cog­ nition, we can search in experience, if not for the principled of their possibility, then for the occasional causes of their generation, where the impressions of the senses provide the first occasion for opening the ena bestimmt b Objecte , Kant's copy of the first edition inserts: "They are not borrowed from experience" (E XLVIII, p. 25; 23:46).
 
 Principium d 220 Section 1.
 
