Key to the solution of the cosmological dialectic The Antinomy of Pure Reason Section Six Transcendental idealism as the key to solving the cosmological dialectic.
 
 We have sufficiently proved in the Transcendental Aesthetic that every­ thing intuited in space or in time, hence all objects of an experience possible for us, are nothing but appearances, i.e., mere representations, A491 / B 519 which, as they are represented, as extended beings or series of alterations, have outside our thoughts no existence grounded in itself. This doctrine I call transcendental idealism. * The realist, in the transcendental signification, makes these modifications of our sensibility into things subsisting in themselves, and hence makes mere representations into things in themselves.
 
 One would do us an injustice if one tried to ascribe to us that long­ decried empirical idealism that, while assuming the proper reality of space, denies the existence of extended beings in it, or at least finds this existence doubtful, and so in this respect admits no satisfactorily prov­ able distinction between dream and truth. As to the appearances of inner sense in time, it finds no difficulty in them as real things; indeed, it even asserts that this inner experience and it alone gives sufficient proof of the real existence of their objectb (in itself) along with all this time-determination.
 
 Our transcendental idealism, on the contrary, allows that the objects B 520 of outer intuition are real too, just as they are intuited in space, along with all alterations in time, just as inner sense represents them. For since space is already a form of that intuition that we call outer, and without objects in it there would be no empirical representation at all, A492 we can and must assume extended beings in space as real; and it is precisely the same with time. Space itself, however, together with time, and, with both, all appearances, are not things, but rather nothing but representations, and they cannot exist at all outside our mind; and even the inner and sensible intuition of our mind (as an object of conscious* <l have also occasionally called it formal idealism, in order to distinguish it from material idealism, i.e., the common idealism that itself doubts or de- B 519 nies the existence of external things. In many cases it seems more advisable to employ this rather than the expression given above, in order to avoid all misinterpretation.>' a Lehrbegriff b Object , This note was added in the second edition.
 
 511 Doctrine of Elements.
 
