Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. 1. Ch. II <.A> production of the appearances by being the priori ground of a neces­ a sary synthetic unity of them. One soon comes upon this if one recalls that appearances are not things in themselves, but rather the mere play of our representations, which in the end come down to determinations of the inner sense. Now if we can demonstrate that even our purest a priori intuitions provide no cognition except insofar as they contain the sort of combination of the manifold that makes possible a thorough­ going synthesis of reproduction, then this synthesis of the imagination would be grounded even prior to all experience on priori principles,a a and one must assume a pure transcendental synthesis of this power, which grounds even the possibility of all experience (as that which the A I02 reproducibility of the appearances necessarily presupposes). Now it is obvious that if I draw a line in thought, or think of the time from one noon to the next, or even want to represent a certain number to myself, I must necessarily first grasp one of these manifold representations after another in my thoughts. But if I were always to lose the preceding rep­ resentations (the first parts of the line, the preceding parts of time, or the successively represented units) from my thoughts and not repro­ duce them when I proceed to the following ones, then no whole repre­ sentation and none of the previously mentioned thoughts, not even the purest and most fundamental representations of space and time, could ever arise.
 
 The synthesis of apprehension is therefore inseparably combined with the synthesis of reproduction. And since the former constitutes the transcendental ground of the possibility of all cognition in general (not only of empirical cognition, but also of pure priori cognition), the re­ a productive synthesis of the imagination belongs among the transcen­ dental actions of the mind, and with respect to this we will also call this faculty the transcendental faculty of the imagination.
 
 3· A103 On the synthesis of recognition in the concept.
 
 WIthout consciousness that that which we think is the very same as what we thought a moment before, all reproduction in the series of rep­ resentations would be in vain. For it would be a new representation in our current state, which would not belong at all to the actb through which it had been gradually generated, and its manifold would never constitute a whole, since it would lack the unity that only consciousness can obtain for it. If, in counting, I forget that the units that now hover a Principien Actus; up to this point Kant has been using the word Handlung.
 
 b 230 Section II.
 
