Ch. I. Sec. I ition would think through it. However, although nothing incorrect can occur in its content, nevertheless sometimes, though to be sure only rarely, there can be a defect in the form (of its dress), namely with re­ gard to precision. Thus the common explanation of the circle, that it is a curved line every point of which is the same distance from a single A732/B760 one (the center-point), contains the error of unnecessarily introducing the determination curved. For it must be a particular theorem, which can be deduced from the definition and easily proved, that every line each point of which is equally distant from a single one is curved (no part of it is straight). Analytical definitions, on the contrary, can err in many ways, either by bringing in marks that really do not lie in the con­ cept or by lacking the exhaustiveness that constitutes what is essential in definitions, since one cannot be so entirely certain of the complete­ ness of their analysis. For this reason the mathematical method of def­ inition cannot be imitated in philosophy.
 
 2. On axioms. These are synthetic priori principles, insofar as they a are immediately certain. Now one concept cannot be synthetically yet immediately combined with another, since for us to be able to go be­ yond a concept a third, mediating cognition is necessary. Now since philosophy is merely rational cognition in accordance with concepts, no principle is to be encountered in it that deserves the name of an axiom.
 
 Mathematics, on the contrary, is capable of axioms, e.g., that three B 76 I points always lie in a plane, because by means of the construction of concepts in the intuition of the object it can connect the predicates of the latter priori and immediately. A synthetic principle, on the cona A 73 3 trary, e.g., the proposition that everything that happens has its cause, can never be immediately certain from mere concepts, because I must always look around for some third thing, namely the condition of time­ determination in an experience, and could never directly cognize such a principle immediately from concepts alone. Discursive principles are therefore something entirely different from intuitive ones, i.e., axioms.
 
 The former always require a deduction, with which the latter can en­ tirely dispense, and, since the latter are on the same account self­ evident, which the philosophical principles, for all their certainty, can never pretend to be, any synthetic proposition of pure and transcen­ dental reason is infinitely less obvious (as is stubbornly said) than the proposition that Two times two is four. To be sure, in the Analytic, in the table of the principles of pure understanding, I have also thought of certain axioms of intuition; but the principle that was introduced there was not itself an axiom, but only served to provide the principle a of the possibility of axioms in general, and was itself only a principle from concepts. For even the possibility of mathematics must be shown in Principium a 640 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use transcendental philosophy.
 
