Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II <A> lationa in empirical intuition is alone possible, i.e., that in experience they must stand under conditions of the necessary unity of appercep­ tion just as in mere intuition they must stand under the formal condi­ tions of space and time; indeed, it is through those conditions that every cognition is first made possible.
 
 4· Provisional explanation of the possibility of the categories as priori cognitions.
 
 a There is only one experience, in which all perceptions are represented as in thoroughgoing and lawlike connection, just as there is only one space and time, in which all forms of appearance and all relationb of being or non-being take place. If one speaks of different experiences, they are only so many perceptions insofar as they belong to one and the same universal experience. The thoroughgoing and synthetic unity of perceptions is precisely what constitutes the form of experience, and it is nothing other than the synthetic unity of the appearances in accor­ dance with concepts.
 
 A I I I Unity of synthesis in accordance with empirical concepts would be entirely contingent, and, were it not grounded on a transcendental ground of unity, it would be possible for a swarm of appearances to fill up our soul without experience ever being able to arise from it. But in that case all relation of cognition to objects would also disappear, since the appearances would lack connection in accordance with universal and necessary laws, and would thus be intuition without thought, but never cognition, and would therefore be as good as nothing for us.
 
 The priori conditions of a possible experience in general are at the a same time conditions of the possibility of the objects of experience, Now I assert that the categories that have just been adduced are noth­ ing other than the conditions of thinking in a possible experience, just as space and time contain the conditions of the intuition for the very same thing. They are therefore also fundamental concepts for thinking objectsC in general for the appearances, and they therefore have priori objective validity, which was just what we really wanted to a know.
 
 However, the possibility, indeed even the necessity of these cate­ gories rests on the relation that the entire sensibility, and with it also all possible appearances, have to the original apperception, in which every­ thing is necessarily in agreement with the conditions of the thorougha Verha/tnis Verhaltnis b Objecte , 234 Section II.
 
