a In the case of empirical judgments or judgments of experience there is no difficulty here.bFor this X is the complete experience of the object that I think through some concept A, which constitutes only a part of this experience. For althoughC I do not at all include the predicate of B 12 weight in the concept of a body in general, the concept nevertheless designates the complete experience through a part of it, to which I can therefore add still other parts of the very same experience as belonging to the former. I can first cognize the concept of body analytically through the marks of extension, of impenetrability, of shape, etc., which are all thought in this concept. But now I amplify my cognition and, in looking back to the experience from which I had extracted this concept of body, I find that weight is also always connected with the previous marks.d Experience is therefore that X that lies outside the concept A and on which the possibility of the synthesis of the predicate of weight B with the concept A is grounded.
 
 But in synthetic priori judgments this means of help is entirely lack- A9 a ing.5 If I am to go outside the concept A in order to cognize another B B 13 as combined with it, what is it on which I depend and through which the synthesis becomes possible, since I here do not have the advantage oflooking around for it in the field of experience? Take the proposition: "Everything that happens has its cause." In the concept of something that happens, I think, to be sure, of an existence which was preceded by a time, etc., and from that analytic judgments can be drawn. But the concept of a cause indicates something different from the concept of something that happens, and is not contained in the latter representa­ tion at all. How then do I come to say something quite different about that which happens in general, and to cognize the concept of cause as belonging to it even though not contained in it?" What is the X here on which the understanding depends when it believes itself to discover be­ yond the concept of A a predicate that is foreign to it and that is yet a Kant's copy of the first edition adds here: "Analytic judgments could accordingly be called mere judgments of clarification, synthetic judgments, however, judgments of am­ plification." (E VII, p. 15) b In Kant's copy of the first edition, this was changed to: "In the case of empirical judg­ ments or judgments of experience there is no difficulty about how they are to be proved synthetically." (E VIII, p. 15) C From here the remainder of the paragraph is incorporated into the second edition.
 
 d The remainder of this paragraph is changed in the second edition; see B I 2.
 
 , Kant ends this and the next sentence with periods, for which we have substituted ques­ tion marks.
 
 131 Introduction <A> connected with it?
 
