Reason, tra­ ditionally thought to be the highest of our cognitive faculties, has a "logical use" in which it simply draws inferences from principles, but also a "real use" in which it seeks to base series of ordinary inferences, such as those from cause to effect, in ultimate, foundational principles, such as the idea of an uncaused first cause. The ideas of such ultimate principles are generated a priori by the faculty of reason when it seeks, through regressive syllogistic reasoning, for what is unconditioned in re­ spect of the objects given in experience, according to the principles of understanding that govern these objects. In particular, it is the three categories of relation when used without regard to the limits of sensibil­ ity that give rise to the chief ideas of metaphysics: the concept of sub­ stance giving rise to the idea of the soul as the ultimate subject, the concept of causation giving rise to the idea of the world-whole as a completed series of conditions, and the concept of community giving rise to the idea of God as the common ground of all possibilities. Kant suggests that each of the three relational categories gives rise to a dis­ tinctive form of syllogistic inference, series of which can only be termi­ nated by the idea of an unconditioned ground, but also that the attempt to acquire knowledge by means of the relational categories without sen­ sibility gives rise directly to the idea of an unconditioned subject, series, and set of all possibilities.
 
 The second and by far the larger book of the "Dialectic" expounds "The Dialectical Inferences of Pure Reason" in great detail. The errors of rational psychology are diagnosed under the rubric of "The Para­ logisms of Pure Reason," those of rational cosmology under the rubric of "The Antinomy of Pure Reason," and those of rational theology under the rubric of "The Ideal of Pure Reason." The "Paralogisms." Rational psychology is the topic of the "Para­ logisms" (or fallacious inferences) of pure reason, which argue invalidly from the formal unity, simplicity, and identity of the thought of the sub­ ject of thinking or the "I" to the conclusion that the soul is a real and simple (hence indestructible) substance that is self-identical throughout all experience (A 34I-66). In the first edition, the "Paralogisms" in­ cluded a fourth part, which defends the reality of external appearance in space simply by reducing objects in space to one form of immediate representation (A 366-4°5). This response to idealism appears to pro­ vide only a Pyrrhic victory over it, which provoked charges of Berkeleianism against Kant, and was therefore replaced in the second edition with the "Refutation of Idealism," which as we saw argues for the real existence of objects in space and time although for the tran­ scendental ideality of their spatial and temporal form. In the second 15 Introduction edition, the entire chapter on the paralogisms was rewritten and sim­ plified (B 406-22); to fill the place of the superseded fourth paralogism, Kant adds an argument that his dualism of appearance and reality un­ dercuts the traditional dualism of mind and body, with its problem about the possibility of interaction between two fundamentally distinct kind of substances, by opening up the possibility that both mind and body are different appearances of some single though unknown kind of substance.
 
