. . r epresentation . . . i s not an outline or any kind of schema of the object, but only a certain law, which is inherent in the mind and by means of which it coordinates for itself that which is sensed from the presence of the object."70 Next, Kant argues that there are two uses of the intellect, a "logical" use in which it subordinates concepts, "no matter whence they are given," to one another in accord with logical rules (e.g., "the principle of contradiction"), and a "real" use, in which concepts themselves, "whether of things or relations," are given. Kant suggests that the logi­ cal use of intellect, or the reflective cognition, which arises when sev­ " eral appearances are compared by the intellect" to produce empirical concepts, is sufficient to transform mere appearance into experience. 7' Finally, he argues that in its real use the intellect produces concepts, such as "possibility, existence, necessity, substance, cause, etc.," which "never enter into any sensory representation as parts," but that can in­ stead be used "dogmatically" to lead to a "paradigm" of "NOUME­ NAL PERFECTION," which in the theoretical context is God and in the practical context is moral perfectionJ2 Thus in its merely logical use, intellect supplies no unique concepts of its own, and merely orga­ nizes data supplied by the senses into experience or empirical knowl­ edge; in its real use, it does supply original concepts of its own, and uses them to know a non-sensible reality as it really is or to define a non-sen­ sible goal for our action.
 
 This series of claims throws light on doctrines of the subsequent Critique, but also raises problems that the later work will need to solve.
 
 First, the characterization of sensibility as a passive power of the mind and intellect as active will remain central to many arguments in the Critique;73 but Kant will also subsume sensibility under the "cognitive faculties" (Erkenntnisvermiigen) generally, and since the term "faculty" (jacultas, for which Kant's German equivalent is Vermiigen) implies ac­ tivity, this means that there is an active element in sensibility as well, which fits Kant's claim that the form of sensibility is in fact supplied by the mind. So it will be important to see that even sensibility has both a passive and an active element: our senses are acted upon by external ob­ jects, but we act upon the sensations so induced to give them form.
 
 Further, the two arguments that Kant here gives for his claim that sensibility represents the mere appearance of things -his eventual 39 Introduction "transcendental idealism" -are both problematic.
 
