Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II regarded as the uttermost in its extent, ora that among the objects of nature that he can resolve through observation and mathematics and determine synthetically in intuition (the extended) there can be a tran­ sition to those which can never be exhibited in concreto either in sense or imagination (the simple); nor will he admit that one can take as fun­ damental in nature itself, a faculty (freedom) that operates indepen­ dently of the laws of nature, and thereby restrict the business of the understanding, which is to trace the origin of appearances guided by A47o/B498 necessary rules; nor, finally, will he concede that the cause of anything should be sought outside nature (an original being), for we are ac­ quainted with nothing beyond nature, since it is nature alone that pro­ vides us with objects and instructs us as to their laws.
 
 Of course, if the empirical philosopher with his antithesis had no other intention than to strike down the impertinent curiosity and pre­ sumptuousness of those who so far mistake the true vocationb of reason that they make most of insight and knowledge just where insight and knowledge really cease, trying to pass off what one should base on prac­ tical interests as furthering speculative interests, in order, whenever seems comfortable to them, to break off the thread of their physical in­ vestigations and, with a pretense of extending cognition, to attach it to transcendental ideas, by means of which one really knowsc only that one knows nothing; if, I say, the empiricist were to content himself d with this, then his principle would be a maxim for moderating our claims, for being modest in our assertions, and at the same time for the greatest possible extension of our understanding through the teacher really prescribed for us, namely experience. For in such a case, intellec­ tual presuppositions and faith on behalf of our practical concern would not be taken from us; only one could not put them forward with A47I/B499 the title and pomp of science and rational insight, because real specula­ tive knowledge can encounter no object anywhere except that of expe­ rience, and if one transgresses its boundary, then the synthesis that attempts cognitions which are new and independent of experience has no substratum of intuition on which it could be exercised.
 
 But if empiricism itself becomes dogmatic in regard to the ideas (as frequently happens), and boldly denies whatever lies beyond the sphere of its intuitive cognitions, then it itself makes the same mistake of im­ modesty, which is all the more blamable' here, because it causes an ir­ reparable disadvantage to the practical interests of reason.
 
 a oder; the first edition reads "nor" (noch), the same word that, in both editions, introduces the last two main clauses of this sentence.
 
 Bestimmung b , erkennt wisse d , tadelbar; in the first edition, this word is tadelhaft.
 
 500 Section III.
 
