Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II ance,a however small it may be, has a degree, i.e., an intensive magni­ tude, which can still always be diminished, and between reality and negation there is a continuous nexus of possible realities, and of possi­ ble smaller perceptions. Every color, e.g., red, has a degree, which, however small it may be, is never the smallest, and it is the same with warmth, with the moment of gravity, etc.
 
 The property of magnitudes on account of which no part of them is the smallest (no part is simple) is called their continuity. Space and time are quanta continua, b because no part of them can be given except as en­ closed between boundaries (points and instants), thus only in such a way that this part is again a space or a time. Space therefore consists only of spaces, time of times. Points and instants are only boundaries, i.e., mere places of their limitation; but places always presuppose those intuitions that limit or determine them, and from mere places, as components that AI70 could be given prior to space or time, neither space nor time can be composed. Magnitudes of this sort can also be called flowing, since the synthesis (of the productive imagination) in their generation is a B 2 I 2 progress in time, the continuity of which is customarily designated by the expression "flowing" ("elapsing").
 
 All appearances whatsoever are accordingly continuous magnitudes, either in their intuition, as extensive magnitudes, or in their mere per­ ception (sensation and thus reality), as intensive ones. If the synthesis of the manifold of appearance is interrupted, then it is an aggregate of many appearances, and not really appearance as a quantum, which is not gen­ erated through the mere continuation of productive synthesis of a certain kind, but through the repetition of an ever-ceasing synthesis. If! call thir­ teen dollars a quantum of money, I do so correctly insofar as I mean by that an amount of a mark of fine silver, which is to be sure a continuous magnitude, in which no part is the smallest but each part could constitute a coin that would always contain material for still smaller ones. But if by the term "thirteen round dollars" I mean so many coins (whatever their amount of silver might be), then it would not be suitable to call this a quantum of dollars, but it must instead be called an aggregate, i.e., a numAI71 ber of coins. Now since there must still be a unity grounding every num­ ber, appearance as unity is a quantum, and is as such always a continuum.
 
 Now if all appearances, considered extensively as well as intensively, are continuous magnitudes, then the proposition that all alteration' (transia Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "I do not say that all reality has a degree any more than that every thing has an extensive magnitude." (E LXXII, p. 3I; 23:29) continuous magnitudes b , Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "[The] possibility of which, just like that of all other objects [Objecte) of pure concepts of the understanding, cannot be given oth­ erwise than in sensible intuition. It is not cognizable in itself." (E LXXIII, p. 3I; 23:29) 292 Section III.
 
