The great idea of the Critique of Pure Reason is that the very thing that explains the possibility of our knowledge of the fundamental principles grounding a scientific view of nature is also the key to the possibility of our freedom in both intention and action, which seems threatened by the rule of causality in that natural world. Kant argues that the principles of the scientific worldview can be known with cer­ tainty because they express the structure of our own thought. They are therefore conditions of the possibility of our experience, which we im­ pose upon the raw data of sensation. Thus, there is a sense in which cer­ titude about the principles of science is possible only because of human autonomy: we are not merely passive perceivers of sensible information flowing into us from external objects, but also cognitive agents who structure what we perceive in accordance with the necessary conditions of our active thought. Thus Kant argues that we can be certain of the fundamental principles of science -above all the universal law of causa­ tion, the assumption underlying all scientific inquiry that every event has a cause and can therefore be explained in accordance with a law of nature -precisely because this law is a condition of the possibility of the thought that we must impose upon our perceptions in order to have any experience at all.
 
 In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the principle of causa­ tion had been put into ever more successful use by practicing scientists, but at the same time doubt had been cast upon it by philosophers. First the principle had been supported upon theological foundations by Descartes and his follower Nicolas Malebranche, and then reduced to a mere phenomenon, as by Leibniz, or finally exposed by Hume as sim­ ply the result of mere custom. Kant, however, argues that a genuine necessary connection between events is required for their objective suc­ cession in time, and that the concept of causality in which this connec­ tion is expressed is imposed on experience by our own thought as an indispensable condition of its possibility. The human understanding, therefore, is the true lawgiver of nature, and the successes of modern science are due to its conduct of its inquiries in accordance with a plan whose ground lies a priori in the structure of human thought (Bxii­ xviii). At the same time, nature is to be regarded as essentially an object of human sensation and thinking, and the validity of the causal princi­ ple is to be restricted to the world as it appears under the conditions of our experience of it. In this way, the same account that guarantees the certitude of the principle of causation also guarantees the freedom of the human will, which is precisely what was typically thought to be ex­ cluded by the universality of causation.
 
 According to Kant, if we understand the principle of causality and the 21 Introduction fundamental principles of the scientific worldview as products of our own thought imposed upon experience, this leaves open the possibility of a radical self-determination of human action when the human will is considered not as it appears but as it is in itself.
 
