Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. 1. Ch. II. <B> sis of the manifold, outside or within us, hence also a combination with which everything that is to be represented as determined in space or time must agree, is already given priori, along with (not in) these a intuitions, as condition of the synthesis of all apprehension. But this synthetic unity can be none other than that of the combination of the manifold of a given intuition in general in an original consciousness, in agreement with the categories, only applied to our sensible intu­ ition. Consequently all synthesis, through which even perception itself becomes possible, stands under the categories, and since experience is cognition through connected perceptions, the categories are conditions of the possibility of experience, and are thus also valid priori of all ob­ a jects of experience.
 
 * * * B 162 Thus if, e.g., I make the empirical intuition of a house into perception through apprehension of its manifold, my ground is the necessary unity of space and of outer sensible intuition in general, and I as it were draw its shape in agreement with this synthetic unity of the manifold in space. This very same synthetic unity, however, if I abstract from the form of space, has its seat in the understanding, and is the category of the synthesis of the homogeneous in an intuition in general, i.e., the category of quantity,a with which that synthesis of apprehension, i.e., the perception, must therefore be in thoroughgoing agreement.* If (in another example) I perceive the freezing of water, I apprehend two states (of fluidity and solidity) as ones standing in a relationb of time to each other. But in time, on which I ground the appearance as inner B 163 intuition, I represent necessary synthetic unity of the manifold, with­ out which that relatione could not be determinate1y given in an intu­ ition (with regard to the temporal sequence). But now this synthetic unity, as the priori condition under which I combine the manifold of a an intuition in general, if I abstract from the constant form of my inner intuition, time, is the category of cause, through which, if! apply it to my sensibility, I determine everything that happens in time in B 162 * In such a way it is proved that the synthesis of apprehension, which is em­ pirical, must necessarily be in agreement with the synthesis of apperception, which is intellectual and contained in the category entirely priori. It is one a and the same spontaneity that, there under the name of imagination and here under the name of understanding, brings combination into the manifold of intuition.
 
 a Grofie Relation b , Relation 262 Section II.
 
