Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II (/-LE7cx{3cun<; H,> CXAAO )lEVO'» . a That is, from the alterations in the world they have inferred their empirical contingency, i.e., their dependence on empirically determining causes, and thus they obtained an ascending series of empirical conditions, which was quite right too. But since they could not find in this series a first beginning or a highest member, they suddenly abandoned the empirical concept of contingency and took up the pure category, which then occasioned a merely intelligible series, whose completeness rests on the existence of an absolutely necessary cause, which now, since it was no longer bound to sensible conditions, was also liberated from the time-condition that even its causality should begin. But this proceeding is entirely illegitimate, as one can conclude from the following.
 
 In the pure sense of the category, the contingent is that whose con­ tradictory opposite is possible. Now from empirical contingency one cannot at all infer this intelligible contingency. When something is alA46o/ B488 tered, its opposite (the opposite of its state) is actual at another time, and hence possible; hence this is not the contradictory opposite of its previous state, for which it would be required that at the very time when the previous state was, its opposite could have been there in place of it, which cannot at all be inferred from the alteration. A body that was in motion ( A), comes to be in rest ( not-A). Now from the fact that an = = opposed state follows upon state A it cannot be inferred that the con­ tradictory opposite of A is possible, and hence that A is contingent; for to have this it would be required that in the very time when there was motion, rest could have been there instead. Now we know nothing be­ yond the fact that rest was actual in the time that followed, and hence that it was possible too. But motion at one time and rest at another time are not contradictory opposites. Thus the succession of opposed deter­ minations, i.e., alteration, in no way proves contingency in accordance with concepts of the pure understanding, and thus it also cannot lead to the existence of a necessary being in accordance with pure concepts of the understanding. Alteration proves only empirical contingency, i.e., that the new state could not at all have occurred on its own, without a cause belonging to the previous time, in accordance with the law of causality. This cause, even if it is assumed to be absolutely necessary, must yet be of such a kind as to be encountered in time and belong to the series of appearances.
 
 " a change to another kind 494 Section II.
 
