Introduction to the Critique of Pure Reason PAUL GUYER AND ALLEN WOOD Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason is one of the seminal and monumental works in the history of Western philosophy. Published in May I78I, when its author was already fifty-seven years old, and sub­ stantially revised for its second edition six years later, the book was both the culmination of three decades of its author's often very private work and the starting-point for nearly two more decades of his rapidly evolv­ ing but now very public philosophical thought. In the more than two centuries since the book was first published, it has been the constant ob­ ject of scholarly interpretation and a continuous source of inspiration to inventive philosophers. To tell the whole story of the book's influence would be to write the history of philosophy since Kant, and that is be­ yond our intention here. Mter a summary of the Critique's structure and argument, this introduction will sketch its genesis and evolution from Kant's earliest metaphysical treatise in I 755 to the publication of the first edition of the Critique in I78I and its revision for the second edi­ tion of I787.
 
 I.
 
 THE ARGUMENT OF THE CRITIQUE The strategy of the Critique. In the conclusion to his second critique, the Critique of Practical Reason of I788, Kant famously wrote, "Two things fill the mind with ever new and increasing admiration and awe the more often and more enduringly reflection is occupied with them: the starry heavens above me and the moral law within me.'" This motto could just as well have served for virtually all of Kant's philo­ sophical works, and certainly for the Critique of Pure Reason. From the outset of his career, Kant had been concerned to resolve a number of the most fundamental scientific controversies of his epoch and to es­ tablish once and for all the basic principles of scientific knowledge of the world, thereby explaining our knowledge of the "starry heavens." Introduction Almost as early in his career, Kant was intent on showing that human freedom, understood not only as the presupposition of morality but also as the ultimate value served and advanced by the moral law, is compat­ ible with the truth of modern science.
 
