The antithetic of pure reason II. Remark A457/B485 On the Antithesis If one supposes that difficulties are to be encountered in ascending in a series of appearances to the existence of an absolutely necessary cause, then these difficulties must not be grounded on the mere concepts of the necessary existence of a thing, hence they cannot be merely ontological, but must arise from the causal connection with a series of appearances, when it tries to assume a condition which is itself unconditioned, thus they must be cosmological and based on empirical laws. It must be shown, however, that ascent in the series of causes (in the world of sense) could never end with an empirically unconditioned condition, and that the cosmological argument from the contingency of states of the world -from its alterations -comes out against the assumption of a first cause that primarily and absolutely initiates the series.
 
 But an odd contrast shows itself in this antinomy: namely, that the A459/B487 same ground of proof from which the thesis of the existence of an original being was inferred, is used also in the antithesis to prove its nonexistence, and indeed with equal rigor. First it is said There is a necessary being because the whole past time includes within itself the series of all conditions, and thus with it also the unconditioned (the necessary). Then it is said There is no necessary being just because the whole of the time that has elapsed includes within itself the series of all conditions (which therefore, taken all together, are once again conditioned). The cause is this. The first argument looks only to the absolute totality of the series of conditions, each determined by another in time, and from this it gets something unconditioned and necessary.
 
 The second argument, on the contrary, takes into consideration the contingency of everything determined in the time-series (because before each [member] a time must precede, in which its condition must once again be determined conditionally), and this completely gets rid of everything unconditioned and all absolute necessity. The mode of in- A46I/B489 ference in both, moreover, is entirely suited to common human reason, which falls repeatedly into the trap of disagreeing with itself when it considers its object from two different standpoints. M. de Mairan took the controversy between two famous astronomers, arising from a similar difficulty in the choice of a standpoint, to be a sufficiently strange 493 Doctrine of Elements.
 
