On Time <fu.
 
 eral concept. The proposition is synthetic, and cannot arise from con­ cepts alone. It is therefore immediately contained in the intuition and representation of time.
 
 5) The infinitude of time signifies nothing more than that every de­ terminate magnitude of time is only possible through limitations of a B48 single time grounding it. The original representation, time, must therefore be given as unlimited. But where the parts themselves and every magnitude of an object can be determinately represented only through limitation, there the entire representation cannot be given through concepts (for then the partial representations precede) but their immediate intuition must be the ground. '7 Conclusions from these concepts. B49 a) Time is not something that would subsist for itself or attach to things as an objective determination, and thus remain if one abstracted from all subjective conditions of the intuition of them; for in the first case it would be something that was actual yet without an actual object. As far as the second case is concerned, however, time could not precede the A 3 3 objects as a determination or order attaching to the things themselves as their condition and be cognized and intuited a priori through synthetic propositions. But the latter, on the contrary, can very well occur if time is nothing other than the subjective condition under which all intuitions can take place in us. For then this form of inner intuition can be represented prior to the objects, thus a priori. IS b) Time is nothing other than the form of inner sense, i.e., of the in­ tuition of our self and our inner state.'9 For time cannot be a determi­ nation of outer appearances; it belongs neither to a shape or a position, B 50 etc., but on the contrary determines the relation of representations in our inner state. And just because this inner intuition yields no shape we also attempt to remedy this lack through analogies, and represent the temporal sequence through a line progressing to infinity, in which the manifold constitutes a series that is of only one dimension, and infer from the properties of this line to all the properties of time, with the sole difference that the parts of the former are simultaneous but those of the latter always exist successively. From this it is also apparent that the representation of time is itself an intuition, since all its relations can be expressed in an outer intuition.
 
 c) Time is the a priori formal condition of all appearances in general. A34 Space, as the pure form of all outer intuitions, is limited as an priori a condition merely to outer intuitions. But since, on the contrary, all rep­ resentations, whether or not they have outer things as their object, nev­ ertheless as determinations of the mind themselves belong to the inner state, while this inner state belongs under the formal condition of inner 163 Doctrine of Elements.
 
