45 Although he wrote without prior knowledge of Mendelssohn's essay, Kant was of course familiar with the Wolffian background on which Mendelssohn was drawing, and in criticizing the methodological as­ sumptions of Wolffianism more firmly than he had ever done before, Kant wrote an essay diametrically opposed to that of his competitor.
 
 This essay takes major steps toward the position of the Critique of Pure Reason, although crucial differences still remain. Kant's most radical de­ parture from prevailing orthodoxy and his biggest step toward the Critique comes in his account of mathematical certainty. Instead of holding that mathematics proceeds by the two-front process of analyz­ ing concepts on the one hand and confirming the results of those analy­ ses by comparison with our experience on the other hand, Kant argues that in mathematics definitions of concepts, no matter how similar they may seem to those current in ordinary use, are artificially constructed by a process which he for the first time calls "synthesis," and that math­ ematical thinking gives itself objects "in concreto" for these definitions, or constructs objects for its own concepts from their definitions. Thus, whatever exactly the concept of a cone might signify in ordinary dis­ course, in mathematics the concept of a cone "is the product of the ar­ bitrary representation of a right-angled triangle which is rotated on one of its sides."46 Thus, we can have certain knowledge of the defini­ tion because we ourselves construct it; and we can have certain knowl­ edge that the definition correctly applies to its objects because the true objects of mathematics are nothing but objects constructed, however that may be, in accordance with the definitions that we ourselves have constructed.
 
 In philosophy, however, things are quite different. Philosophy does not begin from self-constructed and well-defined definitions, but from concepts, which are already given but are also given in a confused man­ ner. Complete definitions of philosophical concepts come, if they come at all, at the end of philosophical inquiry. In fact, Kant insists, the goal of defining concepts -so central to the academic philosophy of the time -is not the goal of philosophy at all. Instead, Kant compares the proper method for philosophy to what he takes to be the method "in­ troduced by Newton into natural science": obtaining certainty not about complete definitions but about "those characteristic marks that are certainly to be found in the concept of any general property" and can lead to "judgments about the object that are true and completely certain." The certainty of such judgments has to be grounded in some­ thing other than definitions, in the case of metaphysics in "an immedi­ ate and self-evident inner consciousness."47 Such sources of evidence then have to be carefully analyzed for their implications, so while 32 Introduction "geometers acquire their concepts by means of synthesis .
 
