Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II There are, accordingly, no more than four cosmological ideas, ac­ cording to the four headings of the categories, if one selects those that necessarily carry with them a series in the synthesis of the manifold.
 
 B443 1.
 
 The absolute completeness of the composition of a given whole of all appearances.a 2. 3· The The absolute absolute completeness completeness of the division of the arising of a given whole of an appearance in general.
 
 in appearance.
 
 4· The absolute completeness of the dependence of the existence of the alterable in appearance.b A416 The first thing to be noted here is that the idea of an absolute totality concerns nothing other than the expositionc of appearances, hence it does not concern the understanding's pure concept of a whole of things in general. Thus appearances are considered here as given, and reason demands the absolute completeness of the conditions of their possibility, insofar as these conditions constitute a series, hence an ab­ solutely (i.e., in all respects) complete synthesis, through which appear­ ance could be expoundedd in accordance with laws of the understanding.
 
 Second, it is properly only the unconditioned that reason seeks in this B444 synthesis of conditions, which proceeds serially, and indeed regressively, hence as it were the completeness in the series of premises that together presuppose no further premise. Now this unconditioned is always con­ tained in the absolute totality of the series if one represents it in imagination. Yet this absolutely complete synthesis is once again only an idea; for with appearances one cannot know, at least not beforehand, a Added in Kant's copy: " 'Absolute totality' signifies the totality of the manifold of a thing in itself and is something contradictory in respect of appearances as mere representa­ tions, which are to be encountered only in the progression, not outside it in them­ selves." (E CLxv, p. 49; 23:40) b Added in Kant's copy: "That there is no difficulty in thinking of the form of the world, i.e., of the commercii of substances as phenomena, for they are in space and time; but as noumena substances do not [have] existence, and the possibility of a world is not explain­ able. But if it is assumed, then more worlds are possible." (E CLXVI, pp. 49-50; 23'40) , Exposition exponiert d 464 Section 1.
 
