To deny that this service of criticisma is of any positive utility would be as much as to say that the police are of no positive utility be­ cause their chief business is to put a stop to the violence that citizens have to fear from other citizens, so that each can carry on his own af­ fairs in peace and safety. '7 In the analytical part of the critique it is proved that space and time are only forms of sensible intuition, and therefore only conditions of the existence of the things as appearances, further that we have no concepts of the understanding and hence no elements for the cognition of things except insofar as an intuition can be BXXVl given corresponding to these concepts, consequently that we can have cognition of no object as a thing in itself, but only insofar as it is an objectb of sensible intuition, i.e. as an appearance; from which follows the limitation of all even possible speculative cognition of reason to mere objects of experience. Yet the reservation must also be well noted, that even if we cannot cognize these same objects as things in themselves, we at least must be able to think them as things in themselves.* For otherwise there would follow the absurd proposition that there is an ap­ pearance without anything that appears. Now if we were to assume that Bxxvii the distinction between things as objects of experience and the very same things as things in themselves, which our critique has made necessary, were not made at all, then the principle of causality, and hence the mechanism of nature in determining causality, would be valid of all things in general as efficient causes. I would not be able to say of one and the same thing, e.g., the human soul, that its will is free and yet that it is simultaneously subject to natural necessity, i.e., that it is not free, without falling into an obvious contradiction; because in both propositions I would have taken the soul in just the same meaning," namely as a thing in general (as a thing" in itself), and without prior critique, I * To cognize an object, it is required that I be able to prove its possibility BXXVl (whether by the testimony of experience from its actuality or a priori through reason). But I can think whatever I like, as long as I do not contradict myself, i.e., as long as my concept is a possible thought, even if I cannot give any assurance whether or not there is a corresponding object' somewhere within the sum total of all possibilities. But in order to ascribe objective validity to such a concept (real possibility, for the first sort of possibility was merely logical) something more is required. This "more," however, need not be sought in theoretical sources of cognition; it may also lie in practical ones.
 
 n der Kritik Object b , Bedeutung; "meaning" will translate this word for the remainder of this paragraph.
 
 Sache d Object e 115 Preface could not have taken it otherwise.
 
