Ch. III always disputing among themselves about the discoveries that each would like to have made on his own, have brought their science into contempt first among others and finally even among themselves.
 
 A 845 I B 873 Thus all pure a priori cognition, by means of the special faculty of cognition in which alone it can have its seat, constitutes a special unity, and metaphysics is that philosophy which is to present that cognition in this systematic unity. Its speculative part, to which this name has been espe­ cially appropriated, namely that which we call metaphysics of nature and which considers everything insofar as it is (not that which ought to be) on the basis of a priori concepts, is divided in the following way.a Metaphysics in this narrower senseb consists of transcendental phi­ losophy and the physiology of pure reason. The former considers only the understanding and reason itself in a system of all concepts and principles that are related to objects in general, without assuming ob­ jectsC that would be given (Ontologia); the latter considers nature, i.e., the sum total of given objects (whether they are given by the senses or, if one will, by another kind of intuition), and is therefore physiology (though only rationalis).46 Now, however, the use of reason in this ra­ tional consideration of nature is either physical or hyperphysical, or, better, either immanent or transcendent. The former pertains to na­ ture so far as its cognition can be applied in experience (in concreto), the latter to that connection of the objects of experience which surpasses all A8461 B 874 experience. Hence this transcendent physiology has either an inner connection to its object or an outer one, both of which, however, go beyond possible experience; the former is the physiology of nature in its entirety, i.e., the transcendental cognition of the world, the latter that of the connection of nature in its entirety to a being beyond nature, i.e., the transcendental cognition of God.47 Immanent physiology, on the contrary, considers nature as the sum total of all objects of the senses, thus considers it as it is given to us, but only in accordance with a priori conditions, under which it can be given to us in general. There are, however, only two sorts of objects for this.
 
 1. Those of outer sense, thus the sum total of these, corporeal nature.
 
 2. The object of inner sense, the soul, and, in accordance with the fun­ damental concepts of this in general, thinking nature. The metaa Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "I would divide it in accordance with the classes of the categories, so that in each class the third category, which contains the other two, yields the idea of the science: "1. General ontology [Allgemeine Wesenlehre]; 2. Theory of namre; 3. Cosmology [Welt­ wissenschaftl; 4. Theology." (E CLXXIXIl, p. 54; 23:43). This is the last emendation Kant made in his copy of the first edition.
 
 b Verstande c Objecte 698 The architectonic of pure reason physics of corporeal nature is called physics, but, since it is to contain only the principles of its a priori cognition, rational physics.
 
