On Time <A> at all can be enclosed, thus no figure is possible, and try to derive it from the concept of straight lines and the number two; or take the proposition that a figure is possible with three straight lines, and in the same way try to derive it from these concepts. All of your effort is in vain, and you see yourself forced to take refuge in intuition, as indeed geometry always does. You thus give yourself an object in intuition; but what kind A48 is this, is it a pure priori intuition or an empirical one? If it were the a latter, then no universally valid, let alone apodictic proposition could ever come from it: for experience can never provide anything of this sort. You must therefore give your object priori in intuition, and a ground your synthetic proposition on this. If there did not lie in you a faculty for intuiting priori; if this subjective condition regarding form a were not at the same time the universal priori condition under which a alone the object" of this (outer) intuition is itself possible; if the object (the triangle) were something in itself without relation to your subject: then how could you say that what necessarily lies in your subjective con­ ditions for constructing a triangle must also necessarily pertain to the triangle in itself?b for you could not add to your concept (of three lines) something new (the figure) that must thereby necessarily be encoun- B66 tered in the object, since this is given prior to your cognition and not through it. If, therefore, space (and time as well) were not a mere form of your intuition that contains priori conditions under which alone a things could be outer objects for you, which are nothing in themselves without these subjective conditions, then you could make out absolutely nothing synthetic and priori about outer objects.c,28 It is therefore in­ a dubitably certain, and not merely possible or even probable, that space and time, as the necessary conditions of all (outer and inner) experience, A49 are merely subjective conditions of all our intuition, in relationd to which therefore all objects are mere appearances and not things given for themselves in this way; about these appearances, further, much may be said priori that concerns their form, but nothing whatsoever about a the things in themselves that may ground them.' " Object b Question mark added.
 
 Objecte , Verhdltnis d , Kant adds three paragraphs and a conclusion following this point in the second edition (B 66-73). In his copy of the first edition, he here inserted the following note, which to some extent outlines the additions to be made in the second: "On the necessity of space and time as priori conditions belonging to the existence a of things -On the effort nevertheless to remove both from a being that is no object of the senses, God -Mendelssohn.
 
 "On the theory of nature: how it is to be seen from that that bodies are mere phe­ nomena." (E XXIXI, p. 21; 23:24) 171 The Transcendental Doctrine of Elements First Part The Transcendental Aesthetic a <§ I>b In whatever way and through whatever means a cognition may relate to objects, that through which it relates immediately to them, and at which all thought as a means is directed as an end, is intuition.
 
