Systematic representation of all synthetic principles without doubt this is the significance with which Epicurus used his ex- AI67 pression 'iTpOA llt\JL<;. 65 But since there is something in the appearances that is never cognized a priori, and which hence also constitutes the real difference between empirical and a priori cognition, namely the sensation (as matter of perception), it follows that it is really this that cannot B209 be anticipated at all. On the contrary, we would call the pure determi­ nations in space and time, in regard to shape as well as magnitude, an­ ticipations of appearances, since they represent a priori that which may always be given a posteriori in experience. But if it were supposed that there is something which can be cognized a priori in every sensation, as sensation in general (without a particular one being given), then this would deserve to be called an anticipation in an unusual sense, since it seems strange to anticipate experience precisely in what concerns its matter, which one can draw out of it. And this is actually how things stand.
 
 Apprehension, merely by means of sensation, fills only an instant (if I do not take into consideration the succession of many sensations). As something in the appearance, the apprehension of which is not a succes­ sive synthesis, proceeding from the parts to the whole representation, it therefore has no extensive magnitude; the absence of sensation in the same moment would represent this as empty, thus Now that in the AI68 = o.
 
 empirical intuition which corresponds to the sensation is reality (realitas phaenomenon); that which corresponds to its absence is negation = o.
 
 Now, however, every sensation is capable of a diminution, so that it can B 2 10 decrease and thus gradually disappear.66 Hence between reality in ap­ pearance and negation there is a continuous nexus of many possible in­ termediate sensations, whose difference from one another is always smaller than the difference between the given one and zero, or complete negation. That is, the real in appearance always has a magnitude, which is not, however, encountered in apprehension, as this takes place by means of the mere sensation in an instant and not through successive synthesis of many sensations, and thus does not proceed from the parts to the whole; it therefore has a magnitude, but not an extensive one.
 
 Now I call that magnitude which can only be apprehended as a unity, and in which multiplicity can only be represented through approxima­ tion to negation 0, intensive magnitude. Thus every reality in the = appearance has intensive magnitude, i.e., a degree. If one regards this reality as cause (whether of the sensation or of another reality in ap­ pearance, e.g., an alteration), then one calls the degree of reality as cause a "moment," e.g., the moment of gravity, because, indeed, the degree designates only that magnitude the apprehension of which is not A 169 successive but instantaneous. But I touch on this here only in passing, for at present I am not yet dealing with causality.
 
 Accordingly every sensation, thus also every reality in appear- B 2 I I 291 Doctrine of Elements.
 
