On the transcendental ideas pense except at great disadvantage to all transcendental estimations.a The word absolute is now more often used merely to indicate that something is valid of a thingb considered in itself and thus internally.
 
 In this meaning, "absolutely possible" would signify what is possible in itself (internally), which is in fact the least one can say of an object. On the contrary, however, it is also sometimes used to indicate that some­ thing is valid in every relation (unlimitedly) (e.g., absolute dominion); and in this meaning absolutely possible would signify what is possible in all respects in every relation, which is again the most that I can say about the possibility of a thing. Now sometimes, to be sure, these two A325 meanings coincide. So, for example, what is internally impossible is also impossible in every relation, and hence absolutely impossible. But in most cases they are infinitely far apart from each other, and so I can by no means infer that because something is possible in itself it is therefore also possible in every relation, hence absolutely possible. Indeed, in what follows I will show about absolute necessity that it by no means depends in all cases on what is internal, and so must not be regarded as signifying the same as what is internal. That whose opposite is internally B 382 impossible, that whose opposite is clearly also impossible in all respects, is therefore itself absolutely necessary; but I cannot infer conversely that what is absolutely necessary is something whose opposite is internally impossible, i.e., that the absolute necessity of a thing is an internal necessity; for this "internal necessity" is in certain cases a wholly empty ex­ pression, with which we cannot connect the least concept; on the contrary, the concept of the necessity of a thing in every relation (to everything possible) carries with it very special determinations. Now because the loss of a concept that has great application in speculative phi­ losophy can never be a matter of indifference to the philosopher, I hope he will also not be indifferent to carefully preserving the determination and the expression on which the concept depends.
 
 It is in this extended meaning that I will make use of the word ab- A326 solute, opposing it to what is merely comparative, or valid in some particular respect; for the latter is restricted to conditions, while the former is valid without any restriction.
 
 Now a transcendental concept of reason always goes to the absolute totality in the synthesis of conditions, and never ends except with the absolutely unconditioned, i.e., what is unconditioned in every relation.
 
 For pure reason leaves to the understanding everything that relates directly to objects of intuition or rather to their synthesis in imagination. B 383 It reserves for itself only the absolute totality in the use of concepts, and seeks to carry the synthetic unity, which is thought in the categories, all a Beurteilungen; in the third edition, this word is in the singular.
 
 b Sacbe 401 Doctrine of Elements.
 
