In the first case my presup­ position and taking certain conditions to be true is a merely contingent belief, in the second case, however, it is a necessary belief. The doctor must do something for a sick person who is in danger, but he does not knowa the illness. He looks to the symptoms/ and judges, because he does not know of anything better, that it is consumption. His belief is merely contingent even in his own judgment; someone else might per­ haps do better. I call such contingent beliefs, which however ground the actual use of the means to certain actions, pragmatic beliefs.
 
 The usual touchstone of whether what someone asserts is mere per­ suasion or at least subjective conviction, i.e., firm belief, is betting.
 
 Often someone pronounces his propositions with such confident and inflexible defiance that he seems to have entirely laid aside all concern for error. A bet disconcerts him. Sometimes he reveals that he is per­ suaded enough for one ducat but not for ten. For he would happily bet one, but at ten he suddenly becomes aware of what he had not previ- A82S/B8S3 ously noticed, namely that it is quite possible that he has erred. If we entertain the thought that we should wager the happiness of our whole life on something, our triumphant judgment would quickly disappear, we would become timid and we would suddenly discover that our belief does not extend so far,37 Thus pragmatic belief has only a degree, which can be large or small according to the difference of the interest that is at stake.
 
 Since, however, even though we might not be able to undertake any­ thing in relation to an object,c and taking something to be true is there­ fore merely theoretical, in many cases we can still conceive and imagine an undertaking for which we would suppose ourselves to have sufficient grounds if there were a means for arriving at certainty about the mat­ ter; thus there is in merely theoretical judgments an analogue of prac­ tical judgments, where taking them to be true is aptly described by the word belief, and which we can call doctrinal beliefs.d If it were possi­ ble to settle by any sort of experience whether there are inhabitants of at least some of the planets that we see, I might well bet everything that I have on it. Hence I say that it is not merely an opinion but a strong belief (on the correctness of which I would wager many advantages in life) that there are also inhabitants of other worlds.
 
 4 kennt b Erscheinungen, here used in a non-technical sense.
 
 C Object d Glaube. While it would be natural to translate Glaube as "faith" when Kant is writing specifically about belief in the existence of God, in what follows there are numerous oc­ currences of the term which can only be translated by "belief," so it seems better to use that translation throughout. This also allows us to translate the verb glauben as "believe." 687 Doctrine of Method.
 
