On the interest of reason in these conflicts standing does not find the least difficulty in the idea of an uncondi­ tioned beginning for every synthesis, since in any case it is more accus­ tomed to descending to consequences than to ascending to grounds; and in the concept of something absolutely first (about whose possibil­ ity it does not bother itself) it finds both comfort and simultaneously a firm point to which it may attach the reins guiding its steps, since oth­ erwise, always having one foot in the air, it can never take any delight in the restless climb from the conditioned to the condition.
 
 On the side of empiricism in determination of the cosmological A468/B496 ideas, or the antithesis, there is first, no such practical interest from pure principles a of reason as morality and religion carry with them.
 
 Mere empiricism seems rather to take all power and influence away from both. If there is no original being different from the world, if the world is without a beginning and also without an author, if our will is not free and our soul is of the same divisibility and corruptibility as matter, then moral ideas and principles lose all validity, and they collapse along with the transcendental ideas that constitute their theoretical support.
 
 On the contrary, however, empiricism offers advantages to the spec­ ulative interests of reason, which are very attractive and far surpass any that the dogmatic teacher of the ideas of reason might promise. For with empiricism the understanding is at every time on its own proper ground, namely the field solely of possible experiences, whose laws it traces, and by means of which it can endlessly extend its secure and comprehensibleb cognition. Here it can and should exhibit its object, in itself as well as in its relations, to intuition, or at least in concepts an image for which can be clearly and distinctly laid before it in similar given intuitions. Not only is it unnecessary for the understanding to abandon this chain of natural order so as to hang onto ideas with whose A469/B497 objects it has no acquaintance because, as thought-entities, they can never be given; but it is not even permitted to abandon its business, and, under the pretext that this has been brought to an end, to pass over into the territory of idealizing reason and transcendent concepts, where there is no further need to make observations and to inquire according to the laws of nature, but rather only to think and invent, certain that it can never be refuted by facts of nature because it is not bound by their testimony but may go right past them, or even subordinate them to a higher viewpoint, namely that of pure reason.
 
 Hence the empiricist will never allow any epoch of nature to be as­ sumed to be the absolutely first, or any boundary of his prospect to be Principien 4 fassliche b '.
 
 499 Doctrine of Elements.
 
