On the relation of understanding to objects <A> laws of the understanding, under which and in accordance with whose norm they are first possible, and the appearances assume a lawful form, just as, regardless of the variety of their empirical form, all appearances must nevertheless always be in accord with the pure form of sensibility.
 
 The pure understanding is thus in the categories the law of the syn­ thetic unity of all appearances, and thereby first and originally makes experience possible as far as its form is concerned. But we did not have to accomplish more in the transcendental deduction of the categories than to make comprehensible this relationa of the understanding to sen­ sibility and by means of the latter to all objects of experience, hence to make comprehensible the objective validity of its pure priori concepts, a and thereby determine their origin and truth.
 
 Summary representation of the correctness and unique possibility of this deduction of the pure concepts of the understanding.
 
 If the objects with which our cognition has to do were things in them­ selves, then we would not be able to have any priori concepts of them a at all. For whence should we obtain them? If we take them from the ob­ jectb (without even investigating here how the latter could become known to us), then our concepts would be merely empirical and not AI29 a priori concepts. If we take them from ourselves, then that which is merely in us cannot determine the constitution of an object distinct from our representations, i.e., be a ground why there should be a thing that corresponds to something we have in our thoughts, and why all this representation should not instead be empty. But if, on the contrary, we have to do everywhere only with appearances, then it is not only possible but also necessary that certain priori concepts precede the a empirical cognition of objects. For as appearances they constitute an object that is merely in us, since a mere modification of our sensibility is not to be encountered outside us at all. Now even this representation -that all these appearances and thus all objects with which we can occupy ourselves are all in me, i.e., determinations of my identical self -expresses a thoroughgoing unity of them in one and the same ap­ perception as necessary. The form of all cognition of objects (through which the manifold is thought as belonging to one object),c however, also consists in this unity of possible consciousness. Thus the way in which the manifold of sensible representation (intuition) belongs to a Verhdltnis a Object b , zu Einem Object 243 Doctrine of Elements.
 
