Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. III <B> succession in the series of appearances and in this succession an exis­ tence, which follows on the not-being (or conversely), and thus a A244 change; for that the not-being of a thing does not contradict itself is a B 302 lame appeal to a logical condition, which is certainly necessary for the concept but far from sufficient for real possibility; for I can suspend any existing substance in thought without contradicting myself, but I can­ not at all infer from that to the objective contingency of its existence, i.e., the possibility of itsa not-being in itself. As far as the concept of community is concerned, it is easy to appreciate that since the pure cat­ egories of substance as well as causality do not admit of any definition determining the object,b reciprocal causality in the relation of sub­ stances to each other (commercium) will be just as little susceptible of it.
 
 No one has ever been able to define possibility, existence, and necessity except through obvious tautologies ifhe wanted to draw their definition solely from the pure understanding. For the deception of substituting the logical possibility of the concept (since it does not contradict itself) for the transcendental possibility of things (where an object corre­ sponds to the concept) can deceive and satisfy only the inexperienced.*'c A246/B 303 Now from this it follows irrefutably that the pure concepts of the understanding can never be of transcendental, but always only of em­ pirical use, and that the principles of pure understanding can be related to objects of the senses only in relation to the general conditions of a possible experience, but never to things in general (without taking re­ gard of the way in which we might intuit them).
 
 The Transcendental Analytic accordingly has this important result: That the understanding can never accomplish priori anything more a than to anticipate the form of a possible experience in general, and, since that which is not appearance cannot be an object of experience, it can never overstep the limits of sensibility, within which alone objects A 247 are given to us. Its principles are merely principlesd of the exposition of appearances, and the proud name of an ontology, which presumes to offer synthetic priori cognitions of things in general in a systematic a B 302 * <In a word, all of these concepts could not be vouched for and their real pos­ sibility thereby established, if all sensible intuition (the only one we have) were taken away, and there then remained only logical possibility, i.e., that the B 303 concept (thought) is possible is not the issue; the issue is rather whether it re­ lates to an object' and therefore signifies anything.> a Following Erdmann, reading "ihres" for "seines." Object b ,. Footnote added in the second edition; following this point, a paragraph present in the first edition (A244-6) is omitted in the second.
 
 d Principien , Object 358 Phenomena and Noumena <B> doctrine (e.
 
