Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <A> Now I assert that all the difficulties one believes he finds in these ques­ tions, and with which, as dogmatic objections, one seeks to give the ap­ pearance of having a deeper insight into the nature of things than the common understanding can have, rest on a mere semblance, according to which one hypostatizes what exists merely in thoughts, and -assum­ ing it to be a real object outside the thinking subject -takes the same quality, namely extension, which is nothing but appearance, for a prop­ erty of external things subsisting even apart from our sensibility, and A 385 takes motion for its effect, which really takes place in itself outside our senses. For matter, whose community with the soul excites such great reservations, is nothing other than a mere form, or a certain mode of rep­ resentation of an unknown object, through that intuition that one calls outer sense. Thus there may very well be something outside us, which we call matter, corresponding to this appearance; but in the same quality as appearance it is not outside us, but is merely as a thought in us, even though this thought, through the sense just named, represents it as being found outside us. Matter thus signifies not a species of substances quite different and heterogeneous from the object of inner sense (the soul), but rather only the heterogeneity of the appearances of substances (which in themselves are unknown to us), whose representations we call external in comparison with those that we ascribe to inner sense, even though they belong as much to the thinking subject as other thoughts do; only they have in themselves this deceptive feature, that since they represent ob­ jects in space, they seem to cut themselves loose from the soul, as it were, and hover outside it; although space itself, in which they are intuited, is nothing but a representation, whose counterpart in the same quality out­ side the soul cannot be encountered at all. Now the question is no longer A386 about the community of the soul with other known but different sub­ stances outside us, but merely about the conjunction of representations in inner sense with the modifications of our outer sensibility, and how these may be conjoined with one another according to constant laws, so that they are connected into one experience.35 As long as we keep inner and outer appearances together with one another, as mere representations in experience, we find nothing absurd and nothing that makes the community of both modes of sense appear strange. But as soon as we hypostatize outer appearances, no longer re­ lating them to our thinking subject as representations but rather relat­ ing them to it in the same quality as they are in us as things external to us and subsisting by themselves, and relating their actions, which show themselves as appearances in relation a to one another, to our thinking subject, then we have a characteristic of the efficient causes a Verhiiltnis 434 Chapter 1.
 
