System of cosmological ideas whether such a synthesis is even possible. If one represents everything through mere pure concepts of the understanding, without the condi­ tions of sensible intuition, then one can say directly that for a given conditioned the whole series of conditions subordinated one to another is given; for the former is given only through the latter. But with ap­ pearances a special limitation is encountered in the way conditions are given, namely through the successive synthesis of the manifold of intu­ ition, which is supposed to be complete in the regress. Now whether this completeness is sensibly possible is still a problem. Yet the idea of this completeness still lies in reason, irrespective of the possibility or impossibility of connecting empirical concepts to it adequately. Thus, since the unconditioned is necessarily contained in the absolute totality B445 of the regressive synthesis of the manifold in appearance (following the categories, which represent appearance as a series of conditions for a given conditioned), one might also leave it undecided whether and how this totality is to be brought about; here reason thus takes the path of proceeding from the idea of a totality, even though it really has as its final intent the unconditioned, whether of the whole series or one part of it.
 
 Now one can think of this unconditioned either as subsisting merely in the whole series, in which thus every member without exception is conditioned, and only their whole is absolutely unconditioned, or else the absolutely unconditioned is only a part of the series, to which the remaining members of the series are subordinated but that itself stands under no other condition. * In the first case the series is given a parte pri­ ori without bounds (without a beginning), i.e., it is given as infinite and at the same time whole, but the regress in it is never complete and can be called only potentia/itera infinite. In the second case there is a first [member] in the series, which in regard to past time is called the be­ ginning of the world, in regard to space and boundary of the world, in regard to the parts of a whole given in its bounds the simple, in re­ gard to causes absolute self-activity (freedom), in regard to the exis­ tence of alterable things absolute natural necessity.
 
 We have two expressions, world and nature, which are sometimes run together. The first signifies the mathematical whole of all appear* The absolute whole of the series of conditions for a given conditioned is al­ ways unconditioned, because outside it there are no more conditions regard­ ing which it could be conditioned. But the absolute whole of such a series is only an idea, or rather a problematic concept, whose possibility has to be in­ vestigated, particularly in reference to the way in which the unconditioned may be contained in it as the properly transcendental idea that is at issue.
 
 a potentially 465 Doctrine of Elements.
 
