Now since these concern our conduct in relation to the highest end, the ultimate aim of nature which A80I I B 829 provides for us wisely in the disposition of reason is properly directed only to what is moral.
 
 However, since we now cast our attention upon an object that is for­ eign* to transcendental philosophy, caution is necessary in order not to digress into episodes and injure the unity of the same system, but on the other side also in order not to say too little about the new material, thus allowing it to fail in clarity or conviction. I hope to achieve both by keeping as close as possible to the transcendental and setting aside en­ tirely what might here be psychological, i.e., empirical.
 
 And here the first thing to note is that for the present I will use the concept of freedom only in a practical senseO and set aside, as having been dealt with above, the transcendental signification of the concept, which cannot be empirically presupposed as an explanatory ground of A802lB830 the appearances but is rather itself a problem for reason.27 A faculty of choice, that is, is merely animal (arbitrium brutum) which cannot be determined other than through sensible impulses, i.e., pathologically.
 
 However, one which can be determined independently of sensory impulses, thus through motivesb that can only be represented by reason, is called free choice (arbitrium liberum), and everything that is connected with this, whether as ground or consequence, is called practical.
 
 Practical freedom can be proved through experience. For it is not merely that which stimulates the senses, i.e., immediately affects them, that determines human choice, but we have a capacityc to overcome impressions on our sensory faculty of desire by representations of that which is useful or injurious even in a more remote way; but these considerations about that which in regard to our whole condition is desirable, i.e., good and useful, depend on reason. Hence this also yields laws that are imperatives, i.e., objective laws of freedom, and that say what ought to happen, even though perhaps it never does happen, and that are thereby * All practical concepts pertain to objects of satisfaction or dissatisfaction,d i.e., A80I IB 829 of pleasure or displeasure, and thus, at least indirectly, to objects of our feeling. But since this is not a power for the representation of things, but lies outside the cognitive power altogether, the elements of our judgments, insofar as they are related to pleasure or displeasure, thus belong to practical philosophy, and not to the sum total of transcendental philosophy, which has to do solely with pure a priori cognitions.
 
 a Verstande b Bewegursachen C Vermogen d Wohlgefallens, oder Miflfallens 675 Doctrine of Method.
 
