Systematic representation of all synthetic principles of the inner variation of the sensation itself if one abstracts from its em­ pirical quality, and it is therefore a question not unworthy of solution, how the understanding can assert something synthetic a priori about ap­ pearances, and indeed anticipate them in that which is really merely empirical, namely what pertains to sensation.
 
 The quality of sensation is always merely empirical and cannot be represented a priori at all (e.g. colors, taste, etc.). But the real, which cor­ responds to sensations in general, in opposition to the negation 0, only = represents something whose concept in itself contains a being, and does not signify anything except the synthesis in an empirical consciousness AI76 in general. In inner sense, namely, the empirical consciousness can be raised from up to any greater degree, so that the very same extensive ° magnitude of intuition (e.g., an illuminated surface) can excite as great a sensation as an aggregate of many other (less illuminated) surfaces taken together. One can therefore abstract entirely from the extensive magnitude of appearance and yet represent in the mere sensation in one mo- B 2 18 ment a synthesis of uniform increase from up to the given empirical ° consciousness. All sensations are thus, as such, given only a posteriori,a but their property of having a degree can be cognized a priori. It is re­ markable that we can cognize a priori of all magnitudes in general only a single quality, namely continuity, but that in all quality (the real of ap­ pearances) we can cognize a priori nothing more than their intensive quantity/ namely that they have a degree, and everything else is left to expenence.
 
 3· <Analogies of Experience.>c,67 [In the first edition:] Their general principle is: As regards their existence, all appearances stand a priori under rules of the determination of their relation to each other in one time.
 
 [In the second edition:] <Their principled is: Experience is possible only through the representation of a necessary connection of perceptions.> e<proof Experience is an empirical cognition, i.e., a cognition that detennines an object! through perceptions. It is therefore a synthesis of perceptions, a Following Erdmann, reading "a posteriori" instead of "a priori." Quantitiit b , In the first edition: "The Analogies of Experience." Princip d , The heading "Proof" and the following paragraph were added in the second edition .
 
 f Object 295 Doctrine of Elements.
 
