Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II to be sure, the consciousness of our own existence, but its determina­ tion in time, i.e., inner experience. Of course, the representation I am, which expresses the consciousness that can accompany all thinking, is that which immediately includes the existencea of a subject in itself, but not yet any cognition of it, thus not empirical cognition, i.e., experi­ ence; for to that there belongs, besides the thought of something exist­ ing, intuition, and in this case inner intuition, i.e., time, in regard to which the subject must be determined, for which outer objects are ab­ solutely requisite, so that inner experience itself is consequently only mediate and possible only through outer experience.85 Note 2. All use of our faculty of cognition in experience for the de­ termination of time agrees with this completely. Not only can we per­ ceiveb all time-determination only through the change in outer relations (motion) relative to that which persists in space (e.g., the motion of the B 278 sun with regard to the objects on the earth);86 we do not even have any­ thing persistent on which we could base the concept of a substance, as intuition, except merely matter, and even this persistence is not drawn from outer experience, but rather presupposed a priori as the necessary condition of all time-determination, thus also as the determination of inner sense in regard to our own existence through the existenceC of outer things. The consciousness of myself in the representation I is no intuition at all, but a merely intellectual representation of the self­ activity of a thinking subject. And hence this I does not have the least predicate of intuition that, as persistent, could serve as the correlate for time-determination in inner sense, as, say, impenetrability in matter, as empirical intuition, does.87 Note 3. From the fact that the existenced of outer objects is required for the possibility of a determinate consciousness of our self it does not follow that every intuitive representation of outer things includes at the same time their existence, for that may well be the mere effect of the imagination (in dreams as well as in delusions); but this is possible merely through the reproduction of previous outer perceptions, which, as has been shown, are possible only through the actuality of outer ob­ jects. Here it had to be proved only that inner experience in general is B 279 possible only through outer experience in general. Whether this or that outer intuition from the spontaneity that characterizes every imagining. For even merely to imagine an outer sense would itself annihilate the faculty of intuition, which is to be determined through the imagination.
 
 Existenz a b Following Erdmann, reading "wahrnehmen" instead of "vornehmen." , Existenz Existenz here and in the remainder of this sentence.
 
 d 328 Section III.
 
