General editors' preface Within a few years of the publication of his Critique of Pure Reason in 1781, Immanuel Kant (1724-18°4) was recognized by his contempo­ raries as one of the seminal philosophers of modern times -indeed as one of the great philosophers of all time. This renown soon spread be­ yond German-speaking lands, and translations of Kant's work into English were published even before 1800. Since then, interpretations of Kant's views have come and gone and loyalty to his positions has waxed and waned, but his importance has not diminished. Generations of scholars have devoted their efforts to producing reliable translations of Kant into English as well as into other languages.
 
 There are four main reasons for the present edition of Kant's writings: Completeness. Although most of the works published in Kant's life­ 1.
 
 time have been translated before, the most important ones more than once, only fragments of Kant's many important unpublished works have ever been translated. These include the Opus postumum, Kant's un­ finished magnum opus on the transition from philosophy to physics; transcriptions of his classroom lectures; his correspondence; and his marginalia and other notes. One aim of this edition is to make a com­ prehensive sampling of these materials available in English for the first time.
 
 2. Availability. Many English translations of Kant's works, especially those that have not individually played a large role in the subsequent development of philosophy, have long been inaccessible or out of print.
 
 Many of them, however, are crucial for the understanding of Kant's philosophical development, and the absence of some from English­ language bibliographies may be responsible for erroneous or blink­ ered traditional interpretations of his doctrines by English-speaking philosophers.
 
 3· Organization. Another aim of the present edition is to make all Kant's published work, both major and minor, available in comprehensive vol­ umes organized both chronologically and topically, so as to facilitate the serious study of his philosophy by English-speaking readers.
 
 vii General editors' preface 4.
 
