Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Appendix flection, so inseparably are they bound up with every use of the under­ standing. The former signifies the determinable in general, the latter its determination a (both in the transcendental sense,h since one abstracts from all differences in what is given and from the way in which that is determined). The logicians formerly called the universal the matter, but the specific difference the form. In every judgment one can call the given concepts logical matter (for judgment), their relation (by means of the copula) the form of the judgment. In every being its components (essen­ tialia) are the matter; the way in which they are connected in a thing, the essential form. Also, in respect to things in general, unbounded reality is regarded as the matter of all possibility, but its limitation (negation) as A267 that form through which One thing is distinguished from another in ac­ cordance with transcendental concepts. The understanding, namely, deB 323 mands first that something be given (at least in the concept) in order to be able to determine it in a certain way. Hence in the concept of pure understanding matter precedes form, and on this account Leibniz first assumed things (monads) and an internal power of representation in them, in order subsequently to ground On that their outer relation and the community of their states (namely of the representations) on that.
 
 Hence space and time were possible, the former only through the rela­ tion of substances, the latter through the connection of their determina­ tions as grounds and consequences.!03 And so would it in fact have to be if the pure understanding could be related to objects immediately, and if space and time were determinations of the things in themselves. But if it is only sensible intuitions in which we determine all objects merely as appearances, then the form of intuition (as a subjective constitution of sensibility) precedes all matter (the sensations), thus space and time pre­ cede all appearances and all data of appearances, and instead first make the latter possible. The intellectualist philosopher could not bear it that form should precede the things and determine their possibility; a quite appropriate criticism, if he assumed that we intuit things as they are A268 (though with confused representation). But since sensible intuition is an B 324 entirely peculiar subjective condition, which grounds all perception a priori, and the form of which is original, thus the form is given for itself alone, and so far is it from being the case that the matter (or the things themselves, which appear) ought to be the ground (as one would have to judge according to mere concepts), that rather their possibility presup­ poses a formal intuition (of space and time) as given.
 
 a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "The thoroughgoing determination as prin­ ciple [Princip] is grounded on the unity of consciousness: existence determined in space and time. Hence in noumena the highest reality contains the matter and the form con­ tains the perfection. Theformale is the best." (E CXLIX, p. 45; 23:37) Verstande h 370 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection Remark to the amphiboly of the concepts of reflection.
 
