First Kant attacks the on­ tological argument, holding that since existence is not a property and therefore not itself a perfection, it cannot be included among the con­ tents of the idea of God, and cannot be inferred from that idea alone.
 
 Instead, Kant argues, the existence of an object is always the presup­ position of the truth of any assertion about it, and cannot itself be as­ sumed for the proof of such an assertion. Kant then argues that even if the cosmological and physico-theological proofs could establish the existence of some necessary and purposive being (which they cannot), they still could not establish the existence of a supremely perfect Deity unless the ontological proof also succeeded. Since the ontological proof is unsound, the entire metaphysical enterprise of proving the ex­ istence of God -as an object of theoretical cognition must be given up as hopeless.
 
 Regulative use of the ideas. The outcome of the "Transcendental Dialectic," therefore, seems to be entirely negative. This is a mislead­ ing conclusion, however. In an appendix to the "Dialectic," Kant begins a limited rehabilitation of the ideas of traditional metaphysics by argu­ ing that the ideas of reason have an important function in the conduct of natural science if they are understood regulatively, that is, if they are taken to represent not metaphysical beings or entities whose reality is supposed to be demonstrable, but rather goals and directions of inquiry that mark out the ways in which our knowledge is to be sought for and organized. This is true of the idea of a simple soul, which stimulates us to search for a unified psychology; of the idea of a complete world­ whole, which leads us constantly to expand the domain of our scientific investigations; and above all of the idea of God, for regarding the world as if it were the product of a highest intelligence leads us to look for the maximum in order and connectedness, which is beneficial for the orga­ nization of whatever empirical knowledge we do acquire. This argu­ ment, which Kant continues in the Critique of Judgment, is the first of Kant's constructive arguments that reason can be misleading but if wisely used is far from idle or even unnecessary. Kant's second con­ structive argument about reason, that its ideas have a profound practi­ cal use for the guidance and regulation of conduct, is begun in the final part of the Critique, the "Doctrine of Method." "The Doctrine of Method." The second major division of the Critique, the "Doctrine of Method," tends to be neglected by its read­ ers, perhaps because the "Doctrine of Elements" is so long and the ar­ guments already surveyed are so exhaustine- the "Doctrine of P·,t 18 Introduction Method," in which Kant reflects upon the potential and the limits of his critical philosophy by comparing it with other methods -he compares the method of philosophy with the method of mathematics, the method of theoretical philosophy with the method of practical philosophy, and the method of critical philosophy with the methods of dogmatic, em­ pirical, and skeptical philosophy -includes some extremely important discussions.
 
