Systematic representation of all synthetic principles experience is hence first brought about through them. Of course the logical clarity of this representation of a rule determining the series of occurrences, as that of a concept of cause, is only possible if we have made use of it in experience, but a consideration of it, as the condition of the synthetic unity of the appearances in time, was nevertheless the ground of experience itself, and therefore preceded it a priori.
 
 It is therefore important to show by an example that even in experience we never ascribe sequence (of an occurrence, in which something happens that previously did not exist) to the object,a and distinguish it from the subjective sequence of our apprehension, ex- B 242 cept when a rule is the ground that necessitates us to observe this order of the perceptions rather than another, indeed that it is really this necessitation that first makes possible the representation of a suc- A 197 cession in the object.b We have representations in us, of which we can also become con­ scious. But let this consciousness reach as far and be as exact and pre­ cise as one wants, still there always remain only representations, i.e., inner determinations of our mind in this or that temporal relation. Now how do we come to posit an objectC for these representations, or ascribe to their subjective reality, as modifications, some sort of objective real­ ity? Objective significance cannot consist in the relation d to another representation (of that which one would call the object), for that would simply raise anew the question: How does this representation in turn go beyond itself and acquire objective significmce in addition to the sub­ jective significance that is proper to it as a determination of the state of mind? If we investigate what new characteristic is given to our repre­ sentations by the relatione to an object, and what is the dignity that they thereby receive, we find that it does nothing beyond making the combination of representations necessary in a certain way, and subjecting them to a rule; and conversely that objective significance is con- B 243 ferred on our representations only insofar as a certain order in their temporal relation is necessary.
 
 In the synthesis of the appearances the manifold representations A 198 always follow one another. Now by this means no object! at all is rep­ resented; since through this sequence, which is common to all appre­ hensions, nothing is distinguished from anything else. But as soon as I perceive or anticipate that there is in this sequence a relationg to the Object n Object b , Object Beziehung d , Beziehung f Object Beziehung g 309 Doctrine of Elements.
 
