On the transcendental ideas tion a is a cognition (cognitio). The latter is either an intuition or a con- B 377 cept (intuitus vel conceptus). The former is immediately related to the object and is singular; the latter is mediate, by means of a mark, which can be common to several things. A concept is either an empirical or a pure concept, and the pure concept, insofar as it has its origin solely in the understanding (not in a pure image of sensibility), is called notio.b A concept made up of notions, which goes beyond the possibility of ex­ perience, is an idea or a concept of reason. Anyone who has become accustomed to this distinction must find it unbearable to hear a repre­ sentation of the color red called an idea. It is not even to be called a notion (a concept of the understanding).'6 First book of the transcendental dialectic A 321 Second section On the transcendental ideas." The transcendental analytic gave us an example of how the mere logical form of our cognition can contain the origin of pure concepts pria ori, which represent objects prior to all experience, or rather which indicate the synthetic unity that alone makes possible an empirical cog- B 378 nition of objects. The form of judgments (transformed into a concept of the synthesis of intuitions) brought forth categories that direct all use of the understanding in experience. In the same way, we can expect that the form of the syllogisms, if applied to the synthetic unity of intuitions under the authority of the categories, will contain the origin of special concepts a priori that we may call pure concepts of reason or transcendental ideas, and they will determine the use of the understanding ac­ cording to principlesd in the whole of an entire experience.
 
 The function of reason in its inferences consisted in the universality of cognition according to concepts, and the syllogism is itself a judgment determined priori in the whole domain of its condition. I can A322 a draw the proposition "Caius is mortal" from experience merely through the understanding. But I seek a concept containing the condition under which the predicate (the assertion in general) of this judgment is given (i.e., here, the concept "human"), and after I have subsumed [the predicate] under this condition, taken in its whole domain ("all humans are Perception a notion b , In his copy of the first edition, Kant inserted these comments: "In experience we can [encounter] no concepts of reason, e.g., of the simple, which cannot exhibit any experience, the [absolutely] unconditioned of every kind.
 
 "The cosmological ideas, to be sure, pertain to objects [Objecte] of the sensible world, but . . . ." (the end of the manuscript is missing) (E CLII, p. 46; 23:38) d Principien 399 Doctrine of Elements.
 
