Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Appendix an intellectual system of the world, or rather believed himself able to cognize the inner constitution of things by comparing all objects only with the understanding and the abstract formal concepts of its thinking.
 
 Our table of the concepts of reflection gives us the unexpected advan­ tage of laying before our eyes that which is distinctive in his theory in all its parts and the leading ground of this peculiar way of thinking, which rests on nothing but a misunderstanding. He compared all things with each other solely through concepts, and found, naturally, no other differences than those through which the understanding distinguishes its pure concepts from each other. The conditions of sensible intuition, which bring with them their own distinctions, he did not regard as orig­ inal; for sensibility was only a confused kind of representation for him, and not a special source of representations; for him appearance was the representation of the thing in itself, although distinguished from cog­ nition through the understanding in its logical form, since with its cus­ tomary lack of analysis the former draws a certain mixture of subsidiary representations into the concept of the thing, from which the under­ standing knows how to abstract. In a word, Leibniz intellectualized the appearances, just as Locke totally sensitivized the concepts of un­ derstanding in accordance with his system of noogony (if! am permit­ ted this expression), i.e., interpreted them as nothing but empirical or abstracted concepts of reflection. 105 Instead of seeking two entirely dif­ ferent sources of representation in the understanding and the sensibil­ ity, which could judge about things with objective validity only in conjunction,a each of these great men holds on only to one of them, which in his opinion is immediately related to things in themselves, while the other does nothing but confuse or order the representations of the first.
 
 Leibniz accordingly compared the objects of the senses with each other as things in general, merely in the understanding, b first, so far as they are to be judged by the understanding as identical or different.
 
 Since he therefore had before his eyes solely their concepts, and not their position in the intuition in which alone the objects can be given, and left entirely out of consideration the transcendental place of these concepts (whether the objectC is to be counted among appearances or among things in themselves), it could not have turned out otherwise but that he extended his principle of indiscernibles,d which holds merely of concepts of things in general, to the objects of the senses (mundus phaenomenon),e and thereby believed himself to have made no little adVerkniipfong a Using a comma as in the first edition rather than a period as in the second.
 
 b Object , That is, the principle of the identity of indiscernibles.
 
 d , phenomenal world 372 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection vance in the cognition of nature.
 
