Pt. II. Div. II. Transcendental Dialectic judgment (its conclusion), and the syllogism is nothing but a judgment mediated by the subsumption of its condition under a universal rule (the major premise). Now since this rule is once again exposed to this same attempt of reason, and the condition of its condition thereby has to be sought (by means of a prosyllogism) as far as we may, we see very well that the proper principle of reason in general (in its logical use) is to find the unconditioned for conditioned cognitions of the under­ standing, with which its unity will be completed.
 
 But this logical maxim cannot become a principleb of pure reason un­ less we assume that when the conditioned is given, then so is the whole .A 308 series of conditions subordinated one to the other, which is itself uncon­ ditioned, also given (i.e., contained in the object and its connection).
 
 Such a principle< of pure reason, however, is obviously synthetic; for the conditioned is analytically related to some condition, but not to the unconditioned. Different synthetic propositions must arise from it, of B 365 which the pure understanding knows nothing, since it has to do only with objects of a possible experience, whose cognition and synthesis are always conditioned. But the unconditioned, if it actually occurs, isd par­ ticularly to be considered according to all the determinations that dis­ tinguish it from everything conditioned, and must thereby give us material for many synthetic propositions priori.
 
 a The principles arising from this supreme principle of pure reason e will, however, be transcendent in respect of all appearances, i.e., no ad­ equate empirical use can ever be made of that principle. It will there­ fore be entirely distinct from all principles! of the understanding (whose use is completely immanent, insofar as it has only the possibil­ ity of experience as its theme). But whether the principleg that the se­ ries of conditions (in the synthesis of appearances, or even in the thinking of things in general) reaches to the unconditioned, has objec­ tive correctness or not; what consequences flow from it for the empiriA 309 cal use of the understanding, or whether it rather yields no such objec­ tively valid propositions of at all, but is only a logical prescription in the ascent to ever higher conditions to approach completeness in them and thus to bring the highest possible unity of reason into our cognition; whether, I say, this need of reason has, through a misunderstanding, B 366 been taken for a transcendental principleh of reason, which overhastily Grundsatz a b Principium , Grundsatz d Reading with the fourth edition, wird for kann.
 
 , Grundsiitze f Grundsiitze Grundsatz g Grundsatz h 392 Introduction postulates such an unlimited completeness in the series of conditions in the objects themselves; but in this case what other kinds of misinter­ pretations and delusionso may have crept into the inferences of reason whose major premise (and that perhaps more a petition than a postu­ late) is taken from pure reason and ascends from experience to its con­ ditions: All this will be our concern in the transcendental dialectic, which we will now develop from its sources hidden deep in human rea­ son.
 
