The exhaustive ap足 plication of such an organon would create a system of pure reason. But since that requires a lot, and it is still an open question whether such an amplification of our cognition is possible at all and in what cases it would be possible, we can regard a science of the mere estimation of pure reason, of its sources and boundaries, as the propaedeutic to the system of pure reason. Such a thing would not be a doctrine, but must be called only a critique of pure reason, and its utility would really be only negative, serving not for the amplification but only for the purifi足 cation of our reason, and for keeping it free of errors, by which a great deal is already won. I call all cognition transcendental that is occupied not so much with objects but rather with our priori concepts of objects a in general.a,6 A system of such concepts would be called transcendental A I 2 philosophy. But this is again too much for the beginning. For since such a science would have to contain completely both analytic as well as synthetic priori cognition, it is, as far as our aim is concerned, too broad a in scope, since we need to take the analysis only as far as is indispensably necessary in order to provide insight into the principles of priori a synthesis in their entire scope, which is our only concern. This investi- B 26 gation, which we can properly call not doctrine but only transcendental critique, since it does not aim at the amplification of the cognitions themselves but only at their correction, and is to supply the touchstone of the worth or worthlessness of all cognitions priori, is that with a which we are now concerned. Such a critique is accordingly a preparation, if possible, for an organon, and, if this cannot be accomplished, then at least for a canon, in accordance with which the complete system of the philosophy of pure reason, whether it is to consist in the ampli足 fication or the mere limitationb of its cognition, can in any case at least some day be exhibited both analytically and synthetically. For that this should be possible, indeed that such a system should not be too great in scope for us to hope to be able entirely to complete it, can be assessed in advance from the fact that our object is not the nature of things, which is inexhaustible, but the understanding, which judges about the A I 3 nature of things, and this in turn only in regard to its priori cognition, a the supply of which, since we do not need to search for it externally, cannot remain hidden from us, and in all likelihood is small enough to be completely recorded, its worth or worthlessness assessed, and subjected to a correct appraisal.c a In the second edition, "but ..." replaced with "but with our manner of cognition of ob足 jects insofar as this is to be possible a priori." See B 2 5 below.
 
 Begrenzung b , Two sentences are added here in the second edition; see B27 below.
 
 133 Introduction <A> B27 II.
 
