Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> general as far as its relation° is concerned. Thus the apprehension in such an occurrence, hence the occurrence itself, as far as possible per­ ception is concerned, stands under the concept of the relationb of ef­ fects and causes, and so in all other cases.
 
 * * * Categories are concepts that prescribe laws a priori to appearances, thus to nature as the sum total of all appearances (natura materialiter spectata),c and, since they are not derived from nature and do not follow it as their pattern (for they would otherwise be merely empirical), the question now arises how it is to be conceived that nature must follow them, i.e., how they can determine a priori the combination of the man­ ifold of nature without deriving from the latter. Here is the solution to this riddle.
 
 It is by no means stranger that the laws of appearances in nature must B 164 agree with the understanding and its a priori form, i.e., its faculty of combining the manifold in general, than that the appearances themselves must agree with the form of sensible intuition a priori. For laws exist just a little in the appearances, but rather exist only relative to the subject in which the appearances inhere, insofar as it has understanding, as appearances do not exist in themselves, but only relative to the same being, insofar as it has senses. The lawfulness of things in themselves would necessarily pertain to them even without an understanding that cognizes them. But appearances are only representations of things that exist without cognition of what they might be in themselves. As mere representations, however, they stand under no law of connection at all except that which the connecting faculty prescribes. Now that which connects the manifold of sensible intuition is imagination, which depends on understanding for the unity of its intellectual synthesis and on sensibility for the manifoldness of apprehension. Now since all possible perception depends on the synthesis of apprehension, but the latter itself, this empirical synthesis, depends on the transcendental one, thus on the categories, all possible perceptions, hence everything that can ever reach empirical consciousness, i.e., all appearances of nature, as far B r65 as their combination is concerned,47 stand under the categories, on which nature (considered merely as nature in general) depends, as the original ground of its necessary lawfulness (as natura flrmaliter spectata).d The pure faculty of understanding does not suffice, however, to Relation a b Verhiiltnisses , "Nature regarded materially," i.e., nature in the sense of its material.
 
 "Nature formally regarded," i.e., nature considered with regard to its form rather than d its matter.
 
 263 Doctrine of Elements.
 
