On the Ground of the Distinction <A> consequently they do not have in themselves any validity of objective concepts.
 
 aNow from this it follows irrefutably that the pure concepts of the B 303 understanding can never be of transcendental, but always only of empirical use,b and that the principles of pure understanding can be related to objects of the senses only in relation to the general conditions of a possible experience, but never to things in generale (without taking regard of the way in which we might intuit them).d The Transcendental Analytic accordingly has this important result: That the understanding can never accomplish priori anything more a than to anticipate the form of a possible experience in general, and, since that which is not appearance cannot be an object of experience, it can never overstep the limits of sensibility, within which alone objects are given to us. Its principles are merely principles of the exposition of A 247 e appearances, and the proud name of an ontology, which presumes to offer synthetic priori cognitions of things in general in a systematic a doctrine (e.g., the principle of causality), must give way to the modest one of a mere analytic of the pure understanding.
 
 Thinking is the action of relating given intuitions to an object. If the B 304 manner of this intuition is not given in any way, then the object is merely transcendental, and the concept of the understanding has none other than a transcendental use, namely the unity of thought of a manifold! in general. Now through a pure category, in which abstraction is made from any condition of sensible intuition as the only one that is possible for us, no objectg is determined/' rather only the thought of an objecti in general is expressed in accordance with different modi. Now to the use of a concept there also belongs a function of the power of judgment, whereby an object is subsumed under it, thus at least the formal condition under which something can be given in intuition. If this condition of the power of judgment (schema) is missing, then all sub­ sumption disappears; for nothing would be given that could be subsumed under the concept. The merely transcendental use of the catea The text common to the two editions resumes here.
 
 b Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "i.e., no principles from mere categories" (E CXXII, p. 41; 23:48).
 
 C Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "synthetically" (E CXXIII, p. 41; 23:48).
 
 d Kant's copy of the first edition adds here: "if they are to produce cognition" (E Cxxrv; p. 41; 23:48).
 
 , Principien f In his copy of the first edition Kant adds here: "of a possible intuition" (E CXXV; p. 41; 23:48).
 
 Object g h Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "hence nothing is cognized" (E CXXVI, p. 41; 23=48).
 
 ; Objects 345 Doctrine of Elements.
 
