In Kant's next surviving letter to Herz, however, written three years later in November 1776, I 16 we again find him suggesting that he has been held up by difficulties surround­ ing the fundamental principle of his new position, though he says that he made progress with it the previous September and once again promises the completed book by the following Easter. Yet the following August still finds Kant reporting "a stone in the way of the Critique of Pure Reason," though once again he is optimistic that he can get by this obstacle during the following winter (1778). But April 1778 finds Kant writing that the rumor that some pages of his book are already at the press is premature, and in August of that year Kant will only say he is "still working indefatigably" on his "handbook." So for at least five years the completion of the promised book con­ tinues to be put off, and there are repeated hints that Kant has still not found the fundamental principle he needs, presumably the one that would answer the fundamental question of 1772. From the letters to Herz, the only one of his known correspondents in this period to whom Kant says anything at all about his planned book, it might seem as if Kant was making no progress at all. But our other sources reveal that he was indeed working "indefatigably" on the Critique throughout this period, and that beginning by April 1774 -in other words, in the vicin­ ity of his first promised Easter completion date -Kant did begin to ex­ plore a solution to his puzzle about why a priori concepts of the understanding should necessarily apply to the data presented to us by sensibility and not have any constitutive, theoretical use outside of that application.
 
 1774-75. Using a letter sent to him on 28 April 1774 as scrap paper, Kant wrote a series of notes that were clearly part of his work on the Critique. Much of the material goes over claims about space and time al­ ready established in the inaugural dissertation, but Kant now adds a line of thought that had not previously appeared. He says that the unity of time implies the unity of the self and the determinate position of all ob­ jects in time; even more explicitly that the unity of space depends on the unity of the subject and on the ability of the subject to assign represen­ tations of objects determinate positions in space; and then suggests that the concepts of the understanding are necessary precisely to achieve such unification of and order among the intuitions of objects presented in the form of time and space. In his words, he asserts first: 49 Introduction Time is unique [einig].
 
