Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> sequently the categories do not afford us cognition of things by means of intuition except through their possible application to empirical in足 tuition, i.e., they serve only for the possibility of empirical cognition.
 
 This, however, is called experience. The categories consequently have no other use for the cognition of things except insofar as these are taken B 148 as objects of possible experience.
 
 The above proposition is of the greatest importance, for it determines the boundaries of the use of the pure concepts of the understanding in regard to objects, just as the Transcendental Aesthetic determined the boundaries of the use of the pure form of our sensible intuition. Space and time are valid, as conditions of the possibility of how objects can be given to us, no further than for objects of the senses, hence only for ex足 perience. Beyond these boundaries they do not represent anything at all, for they are only in the senses and outside of them have no reality.
 
 The pure concepts of the understanding are free from this limitation and extend to objects of intuition in general, whether the latter be similar to our own or not, as long as it is sensible and not intellectual. But this further extension of concepts beyond our sensible intuition does not get us anywhere. For they are then merely empty concepts of objects,a through which we cannot even judge whether the latter are possible or not -mere forms of thought without objective reality -since we have available no intuition to which the synthetic unity of apper足 ception, which they alone contain, could be applied, and that could thus determine an object. Our sensible and empirical intuition alone can B 149 provide them with sense and significance.
 
 Thus if one assumes an objectb of a non-sensible intuition as given, one can certainly represent it through all of the predicates that already lie in the presupposition that nothing belonging to sensible intuition pertains to it: thus it is not extended, or in space, that its duration is not a time, that no alteration (sequence of determinations in time) is to be encountered in it, etc. But it is not yet a genuine cognition ifI merely indicate what the intuition of the object' is not, without being able to say what is then contained in it; for then I have not represented the pos足 sibility of an objectd for my pure concept of the understanding at all, since I cannot give any intuition that would correspond to it, but could only say that ours is not valid for it. But what is most important here is that not even a single category could be applied to such a thing, e.g., the a Objecten Object b , Object Objects d 255 Doctrine of Elements.
 
