Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III tioned necessity of some being or other to the unbounded reality of this being, thus setting everything on the track of a species of inference that, whether reasonable or sophisticaV is at least natural, and has been the most persuasive one not only for the common but also for the specula­ tive understanding; it is also the one that visibly draws the outlinesb for all the proofs of natural theology, outlines which have always been fol­ lowed and will be followed further, however one might try to embellish and disguise them with so much foliage and scrollwork. This proof, which Leibniz also called the proof a contingentia mundi,c we will now place before our eyes and subject to examination. 102 It goes as follows: If something exists, then an absolutely necessary being also has to exist. Now I myself, at least, exist; therefore, an ab­ solutely necessary being exists. The minor premise contains an experiA60S/B633 ence, the major premise an inference from an experience in general to the existence of something necessary. * Thus the proof really starts from experience, so it is not carried out entirely a priori or ontologically; and because the object of all possible experience is called "world," it is therefore termed the cosmological proof. Since it also abstracts from every particular property of objects of experience through which this world might differ from any other possible world, it is already distin­ guished by this terminology from the physico-theological proof, which uses observations about the particular constitution of this sensible world of ours for its grounds of proof.
 
 Now the proof further infers: The necessary being can be deter­ mined only in one single way, i.e., in regard to all possible predicates, it can be determined by only one of them, so consequently it must be thoroughly determined through its concept. Now only one single con­ cept of a thing is possible that thoroughly determines the thing a priori, namely that of an ens realissimum: Thus the concept of the most real d A 606 / B 634 being is the only single one through which a necessary being can be thought, i.e., there necessarily exists a highest being.
 
 In this cosmological argument so many sophistical principles come together that speculative reason seems to have summoned up all its diA60S / B 633 * This inference is too well known for it to be necessary to expound it in detail here. It rests on the allegedly transcendental natural law of causality that everything contingent must have a cause, which, if it in turn is contingent, must likewise have its cause, until the series of causes subordinated one to an­ other has to end with an absolutely necessary cause, without which it would have no completeness.
 
 a ob verniinftigen oder verniinftelnden Grnndlinien b , from the contingency of the world d "most real being"; Kant declines this phrase in the genitive.
 
 570 Section V Impossibility of a cosmological proof alectical art so as to produce the greatest possible transcendental illu­ sion.
 
