On the principles of a transcendental deduction objects of sensible intuition must accord with the formal conditions of sensibility that lie in the mind priori is clear from the fact that other- B 123 a wise they would not be objects for us; but that they must also accord with the conditions that the understanding requires for the synthetic unitya of thinking is a conclusion that is not so easily seen.b For ap­ pearances could after all be so constituted that the understanding would not find them in accord with the conditions of its unity, and everything would then lie in such confusion that, e.g., in the succession of appearances nothing would offer itself that would furnish a rule of synthesis and thus correspond to the concept of cause and effect, so that this concept would therefore be entirely empty, nugatory, and without significance. Appearances would nonetheless offer objects to our intuition, for A91 intuition by no means requires the functions of thinking.
 
 If one were to think of escaping from the toils of these investigations by saying that experience constantly offers examples of a regularity of appearances that give sufficient occasion for abstracting the concept of cause from them, and thereby at the same time thought to confirm the objective validity of such a concept, then one has not noticed that the concept of cause cannot arise in this way at all, but must either be grounded in the understanding completely priori or else be entirely a surrendered as a mere fantasy of the brain. For this concept always re- B 124 quires that something A be of such a kind that something else B follows from it necessarily and in accordance with an absolutely universal rule. Appearances may well offer cases from which a rule is possible in accordance with which something usually happens, but never a rule in accordance with which the succession is necessary; thus to the synthesis of cause and effect there attaches a dignity that can never be expressed empirically, namely, that the effect does not merely come along with the cause, but is posited through it and follows from it. The strict universality of the rule is therefore not any property of empirical rules, which cannot acquire anything more through induction than compara- A92 tive universality, i.e., widespread usefulness. But now the use of the pure concepts of the understanding would be entirely altered if one were to treat them only as empirical products.
 
 a Following Erdmann in reading "Einheit" for "Einsicht"; Kant uses "Einheit" in a parallel fashion in the next sentence.
 
 b Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "If I were simply to say that without the connection of causes and effects I would not grasp the sequence of alterations, it would not at all follow from this that this must be precisely as an understanding needs it to be to grasp it, but I would not be able to explain whence they continuously follow one another. Only I would not raise this question if I did not already have the concept of cause and of the necessity of such persistence. A subjective necessity, habit, would make it worse. An implanted necessity would not prove necessity." (E L, pp. 25-6; 23:26) 223 Doctrine of Elements.
 
