On Time <§ 8> B 59 (;eneralremarks on the transcendental aesthetic d.>a It will first be necessary to explain as distinctly as possible our opinion in regard to the fundamental constitution of sensible cognition A42 in general, in order to preclude all misinterpretation of it.
 
 We have therefore wanted to say that all our intuition is nothing but the representation of appearance; that the things that we intuit are not in themselves what we intuit them to be, nor are their relations so con­ stituted in themselves as they appear to us; and that if we remove our own subject or even only the subjective constitution of the senses in general, then all constitution, all relations of objectsb in space and time, indeed space and time themselves would disappear, and as appearances they cannot exist in themselves, but only in us. What may be the case with objects in themselves and abstracted from all this receptivity of our sensibility remains entirely unknown to us. We are acquainted with nothing except our way of perceiving them, which is peculiar to us, and which therefore does not necessarily pertain to every being, though to be sure it pertains to every human being. We are concerned solely with this. Space and time are its pure forms, sensation in general its matter. B60 We can cognize only the former a priori, i.e., prior to all actual perception, and they are therefore called pure intuition; the latter, however, is that in our cognition that is responsible for it being called a posteriori cognition, i.e., empirical intuition. The former adheres to our sensibility absolutely necessarily, whatever sort of sensations we may have; the latter can be very different. Even if we could bring this intuition of ours A43 to the highest degree of distinctness we would not thereby come any closer to the constitution of objects in themselves. For in any case we would still completely cognize only our own way of intuiting, i.e., our sensibility, and this always only under the conditions originally depending on the subject, space and time; what the objects may be in themselves would still never be known through the most enlightened cognition of their appearance, which alone is given to us.
 
 That our entire sensibility is nothing but the confused representation of things, which contains solely that which pertains to them in them­ selves but only under a heap of marks and partial representations that we can never consciously separate from one another, is therefore a fal­ sification of the concept of sensibility and of appearance that renders a "1." is added in the second edition because of the addition of the further numbered para­ graphs (II through N) added at B66-73.
 
 Objecte b 185 Doctrine of Elements.
 
