System of cosmological ideas of a possible experience, and thus seek to extend it beyond the boundaries of the empirical, though still in connection with it. This happens B436 when for a given conditioned reason demands an absolute totality on the side of the conditions (under which the understanding subjects all appearances to synthetic unity), thereby making the category into a transcendental idea, in order to give absolute completeness to the empirical synthesis through its progress toward the unconditioned (which is never met with in experience, but only in the idea). Reason demands this in accordance with the principle: If the conditioned is given, then the whole sum of conditions, and hence the absolutely uncondi­ tioned, is also given, through which alone the conditioned was possible.47 Thus first, the transcendental ideas will really be nothing except categories extended to the unconditioned, and the former may be brought into a table ordered according to the headings of the latter.
 
 Second, however, not all categories will work here, but only those in which the synthesis constitutes a series, and indeed a series of conditions subordinated (not coordinated) one to another for any conditioned. Absolute totality is demanded by reason only insofar as reason is concerned with the ascending series of conditions for a given condi- A4IO tioned, hence not when dealing with the descending line of conse­ quences, nor with the aggregate of coordinated conditions for these consequences. For in regard to the given conditioned, conditions are B437 regarded as already presupposed and given along with the conditioned; whereas, since the consequences do not make their conditions possible, but rather presuppose them, in proceeding to the consequences (or in descending from a given condition to the conditioned) one remains un­ troubled about whether or not in general the series stops, and the question about its totality is not at all a presupposition of reason.
 
 Thus one necessarily thinks of the fully elapsed time up to the present moment as also given (even if not as determinable by us). But as to the future, since it is not a condition for attaining to the present, it is a mat­ ter of complete indifference for comprehending the present what we want to hold about future time, whether it stops somewhere or runs on to infinity. Let there be a series m, 0, in which is given as conditioned n, n in respect of m, but at the same time as the condition of 0, and the series ascends from the conditioned to m (/, k,j, etc.); then I must presuppose n the first series in order to regard as given, and is possible in accorn n dance with reason (with the totality of conditions) only by means of that A41 I series; but its possibility does not rest on the subsequent series 0, p, q, r, which therefore cannot" be regarded as given, but only as dabilis. b B438 a nicht ... kijnne. The fourth edition changes from the present to the imperfect subjunc­ tive, reading "nicht ... konnte" (could not).
 
 h capable of bei.lg given 461 Doctrine of Elements.
 
