Under each of these four headings there are supposed to be three different options: a judgment may be universal, particular or singular; affirmative, negative or infi­ nite; categorical, hypothetical or disjunctive; and problematic, asser­ toric, or apodictic. Corresponding to these twelve logical possibilities, Kant holds there to be twelve fundamental categories for conceiving of the quantity, quality, relation, and modality of objects (A 70/B 95, A80/B 106). The plausibility of Kant's claim that there are exactly twelve logical functions of judgment and twelve corresponding cate­ gories for conceiving of objects has remained controversial since Kant first made it. ,6 Even if Kant establishes by this argument that we have certain con­ cepts a priori, it is a more ambitious claim that all of these concepts apply universally and necessarily to the objects that are given in our ex­ perience. Kant takes on this more ambitious project in the "Transcen­ dental Deduction of the Categories," the chapter which he says in the first edition of the Critique cost him the most labor (A xvi), but which he then rewrote almost in its entirety for the second edition (A 84-1 301 B II6 -69) after other attempts in the intervening works, the Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics (1783) and Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science (1786). In both versions of the Critique, although not in the in­ tervening works, Kant centers his argument on the premise that our ex­ perience can be ascribed to a single identical subject, via what he calls the "transcendental unity of apperception," only if the elements of ex­ perience given in intuition are synthetically combined so as to present us with objects that are thought through the categories. The categories are held to apply to objects, therefore, not because these objects make the categories possible, but rather because the categories themselves constitute necessary conditions for the representation of all possible ob­ jects of experience. Precisely what is entailed by the idea of the unity of apperception, however, and what the exact relation between appercep­ tion and the representation of objects is, are obscure and controversial, and continue to generate lively philosophical discussion even after two centuries of interpretation. '7 Principles of pure understanding. Even if the transcendental de­ duction does establish that the categories do apply to all possible data for experience, or (in Kant's terms) all manifolds of intuition, it does so only abstractly and collectively -that is, it does not specify how each category applies necessarily to the objects given in experience or show 9 Introduction that all of the categories must be applied to those objects.
 
