Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> them to the identical self as my representations, and thus can grasp them together, as synthetically combined in an apperception, through the general expression I think.
 
 This principle, however, is not a principle a for every possible under­ standing, but only for one through whose pure apperception in the rep­ resentation I am nothing manifold is given at all. That understanding through whose self-consciousness the manifold of intuition would at the same time be given, an understanding through whose representa­ BI39 tion the objectsb of this representation would at the same time exist, would not require a special actC of the synthesis of the manifold for the unity of consciousness, which the hlunan understanding, which merely thinks, but does not intuit, does require. But for the human under­ standing it is unavoidably the first principle, so that the human under­ standing cannot even form for itself the least concept of another possible understanding, either one that would intuit itself or one that, while possessing a sensible intuition, would possess one of a different kind than one grounded in space and time.
 
 § 18.
 
 What objective unity of self-consciousness is.
 
 The transcendental unity of apperception is that unity through which all of the manifold given in an intuition is united in a concept of the object.d It is called objective on that account, and must be distin­ guished from the subjective unity of consciousness, which is a deter­ mination of inner sense, through which that manifold of intuition is empirically given for such a combination. Whether I can become empirically conscious of the manifold as simultaneous or successive depends on the circumstances, or empirical conditions. Hence the emB 140 pirical unity of consciousness, through association of the representa­ tions, itself concerns an appearance, and is entirely contingent. The pure form of intuition in time, on the contrary, merely as intuition in general, which contains a given manifold, stands under the original unity of consciousness, solely by means of the necessary relation of the manifold of intuition to the one I think, thus through the pure syn­ thesis of the understanding, which grounds priori the empirical syn­ a thesis. That unity alone is objectivity valid; the empirical unity of apperception, which we are not assessing here, and which is also de­ rived only from the former, under given conditions in concreto, has a Princip Objecte b , Actus Object d 250 Section II.
 
