Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II ter penetrating all bodies from the perception of attracted iron filings, although an immediate perception of this matter is impossible for us given the constitution of our organs. For in accordance with the laws of sensibility and the context of our perceptions we could also happen upon the immediate empirical intuition of it in an experience if our senses, the crudeness of which does not affect the form of possible experience in general, were finer. Thus wherever perception and whatever is appended to it in accordance with empirical laws reaches, there too reaches our cognition of the existence of things. If we do not begin with experience, B274 or proceed in accordance with laws of the empirical connectiona of ap­ pearances, then we are only making a vain display of wanting to discover or research the existence of any thing. b<However, a powerful objection against these rules for proving existence mediately is made by idealism, the refutation of which belongs here.
 
 * * * Refutation of Idealism83 Idealism (I mean material idealism) is the theory that declares the exis­ tence of objects in space outside us to be either merely doubtful and in­ demonstrable, or else false and impossible; the former is the problematic idealism of Descartes, who declares only one empirical as­ sertion (assertio), namely I am, to be indubitable; the latter is the dog­ matic idealism of Berkeley, who declares space, together with all the things to which it is attached as an inseparable condition, to be some­ thing that is impossible in itself, and who therefore also declares things in space to be merely imaginary.84 Dogmatic idealism is unavoidable if one regards space as a property that is to pertain to the things in them­ selves; for then it, along with everything for which it serves as a condi­ tion, is a non-entity. The ground for this idealism, however, has been undercut by us in the Transcendental Aesthetic. Problematic idealism, B 275 which does not assert anything about this, but rather professes only our incapacity for proving an existence outside us from our own by means of immediate experience, is rational and appropriate for a thorough philo­ sophical manner of thought, allowing, namely, no decisive judgment until a sufficient proof has been found. The proof that is demanded must therefore establish that we have experience and not merely imagina­ tion of outer things, which cannot be accomplished unless one can prove that even our inner experience, undoubted by Descartes, is possible only under the presupposition of outer experience.
 
 a Zusammenhanges The following sentence, the ensuing "Refutation of Idealism," and its proof and the b subsequent remarks are all added in the second edition (B 274-9)' 326 Section III.
 
