Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III sire for it. The analysts had already done much when they were able to reduce all salts to two main genera, acidic and alkaline, but they even attempted to regard this distinction as merely a variety or varied exA653iB681 pression ofo ne and the same fundamental material. They sought to get the several species of earths (the material of stone and even of metal) gradually down to three, and finally to two; still not satisfied, they could not dismiss from their thought the conjecture that behind these vari­ eties there is a single genus or even indeed a common principle a for both earths and salts. One might have believed that this is merely a de­ vice of reason for achieving economy, for saving as much trouble as pos­ sible, and a hypothetical attempt that, if it succeeds, will through this unity give probability to the grounds of explanation it presupposed. Yet such a selfish aim can easily be distinguished from the idea, in accor­ dance with which everyone presupposes that this unity of reason con­ forms to nature itself; and here reason does not beg but commands, though without being able to determine the bounds of this unity.
 
 If among the appearances offering themselves to us there were such a great variety -I will not say of form (for they might be similar to one another in that) but of content, i.e., regarding the manifoldness of ex­ isting beings -that even the most acute human understanding, through comparison of one with another, could not detect the least similarity (a case which can at least be thought), then the logical law of genera would A6S4/ B682 not obtain at all, no concept of a genus, nor any other universal con­ cept, indeed no understanding at all would obtain, since it is the under­ standing that has to do with such concepts. The logical principleb of genera therefore presupposes a transcendental one if it is to be applied to nature (by which I here understand only objects that are given to us).
 
 According to that principle, sameness of kind is necessarily presupposed in the manifold of a possible experience (even though we cannot deter­ mine its degree a priori), because without it no empirical concepts and hence no experience would be possible.
 
 To the logical principle of genera which postulates identity there is r opposed another, namely that of species, which needs manifoldness and variety in things despite their agreement under the same genus, and prescribes to the understanding that it be no less attentive to variety than to agreement. This principle (of discrimination, or of the faculty of distinguishing) severely limits the rashness of the first principle (of wit);"7 and here reason shows two interests that conflict with each other: on the one side, an interest in the domain (universality) in regard to genera, on the other an interest in content (determinacy) in respect Princip P b Princip , Princip 596 Section VII.
 
