Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> itself, a but only combines and orders the material for cognition, the in­ tuition, which must be given to it through the object.b But for the pe­ culiarity of our understanding, that it is able to bring about the unity of apperception priori only by means of the categories and only through a B I46 precisely this kind and number of them, a further ground may be of­ fered just as little as one can be offered for why we have precisely these and no other functions for judgment or for why space and time are the sole forms of our possible intuition.
 
 § 22.
 
 The category has no other use for the cognition of things than its application to objects of experience.
 
 To think of an object and to cognize an object are thus not the same.
 
 For two components belong to cognition: first, the concept, through which an object is thought at all (the category), and second, the intu­ ition, through which it is given; for if an intuition corresponding to the concept could not be given at all, then it would be a thought as far as its form is concerned, but without any object, and by its means no cogni­ tion of anything at all would be possible, since, as far as I would know, nothing would be given nor could be given to which my thought could be applied. Now all intuition that is possible for us is sensible (Aes­ thetic), thus for us thinking of an object in general through a pure con­ cept of the understanding can become cognition only insofar as this concept is related to objects of the senses. Sensible intuition is either B 147 pure intuition (space and time) or empirical intuition of that which, through sensation, is immediately represented as real in space and time.
 
 Through determination of the former we can acquire priori cognitions a of objects (in mathematics), but only as far as their form is concerned, as appearances; whether there can be things that must be intuited in this form is still left unsettled. Consequently all mathematical concepts are not by themselves cognitions, except insofar as one presupposes that there are things that can be presented to us only in accordance with the form of that pure sensible intuition. Things in space and time, how­ ever, are only given insofar as they are perceptions (representations ac­ companied with sensation), hence through empirical representation.
 
 The pure concepts of the understanding, consequently, even if they are applied to priori intuitions (as in mathematics), provide cognition only a insofar as these priori intuitions, and by means of them also the con­ a cepts of the understanding, can be applied to empirical intuitions. Confor sich a Object b 254 Section II.
 
