e., without the explanation being derived from anywhere else. The German language has for the expressions exposi­ tion, explication, declaration and definition b nothing more than the one word "explanation,"c,II and hence we must somewhat weaken the stringency of the requirement by which we denied philosophical expla­ nations the honorary title of "definition," and limit this entire remark to this, that philosophical definitions come about only as expositions of given concepts, but mathematical ones as constructions of concepts that are originally made, thus the former come about only analyti­ cally through analysis (the completeness of which is never apodicti­ cally certain), while the latter come about synthetically, and therefore make the concept itself, while the former only explain it. From this it follows: a) That in philosophy one must not imitate mathematics in putting the definitions first, unless perhaps as a mere experiment. For since they are analyses of given concepts, these concepts, though perhaps only still confused, come first, and the incomplete exposition precedes the com­ plete one, so that we can often infer much from some marks that we have drawn from an as yet uncompleted analysis before we have arrived at a complete exposition, i.e., at a definition; in a word, it follows that in philosophy the definition, as distinctness made precise, must con- A 731 / B 759 elude rather than begin the work. * On the contrary, in mathematics we do not have any concept at all prior to the definitions, as that through which the concept is first given; it therefore must and also always can begin with them.
 
 b) Mathematical definitions can never err. For since the concept is first given through the definition, it contains just that which the de fin* Philosophy is swarming with mistaken definitions, especially those that actu­ ally contain elements for definition but are not yet complete. If one would not know what to do with a concept until one had defined it, then all philoso­ phizing would be in a bad way. But since, however far the elements (of the analysis) reach, a good and secure use can always be made of them, even im­ perfect definitions, i.e., propositions that are not really definitions but are true and thus approximations to them, can be used with great advantage. In math­ ematics definitions belong ad esse, d in philosophy ad melius esse. Attaining them e is fine, but often very difficult. Jurists are still searching for a definition of their concept of right.
 
 a Erkliirung h All Latinate words: "Exposition, Explikation, Deklaration und Definition." Erkliirung C d to the being e to the improvement of being 639 Doctrine of Method.
 
