Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III ally is), which cannot lead us very far, reason takes the concept of the empirical unity of all thought, and, by thinking this unity uncondition­ ally and originally, it makes out of it a concept of reason (an idea) of a simple substance, unchangeable in itself (identical in personality), standing in community with other real things outside it -in a word, the concept of a simple self-sufficient intelligence. With this, however, rea­ son has nothing before its eyes except principles of the systematic unity a in explaining the appearances of the soul, namely by considering all de­ terminations as in one subject, all powers, as far as possible, as derived from one unique fundamental power, all change as belonging to the A683/B7II states of one and the same persisting being, and by representing all ap­ pearances in space as entirely distinct from the actions of thinking.
 
 That simplicity of substance, etc., ought to be only the schema for this regulative principle,b and it is not presupposed as if it were the real ground of properties of the soul. For these properties could rest on en­ tirely different grounds, with which we are not acquainted at all, just as we might not really be able to cognize the soul at all through these as­ sumed predicates even if we let them hold of it absolutely, since they constitute a mere idea that cannot be represented in concreto at all. Now nothing but advantage can arise from such a psychological idea, if only one guards against letting it hold as something more than a mere idea, i.e., if one lets it hold merely relative to the systematic use of reason in respect of the appearances of our soul. For then empirical laws of cor­ poreal appearances, which are of an entirely different species, will not be mixed up in the explanation ofw hat belongs merely toC inner sense; then no windy hypotheses about the generation, destruction or palin­ genesis'2' of souls, etc., will be admitted; a consideration of this object of inner sense as a whole will d therefore be instituted, and this will not be mixed up with properties of any different kind; moreover, the inves­ tigation of reason will be directed to carrying through the grounds of explanation in this subject as far as possible on the basis of a single prinA684/B 712 ciple;e all of this is best effected through such a schema just as if it were an actual being -indeed, it can be effected only and solely in this way.
 
 The psychological idea can also signity nothing other than the schema of a regulative concept. For if I wanted only to ask whether the soul is not in itself of a spiritual nature, this question would have no sense at all. For through such a concept I would take away not merely corporeal nature, but all nature whatever, i.e., all predicates of any possible expea Principien Princip b C for; the first edition reads "vor" (before).
 
 d wird; this word is missing in the first edition.
 
 Princip C 612 Section VII.
 
