Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> § 21. BI44 Remark.
 
 A manifold that is contained in an intuition that I call mine is repre­ sented as belonging to the necessary unity of self-consciousness through the synthesis of the understanding, and this takes place by means of the category. * This indicates, therefore, that the empirical consciousness of a given manifold of onea intuition stands under a pure priori self-consciousness, just as empirical intuitions stand under a :1 pure sensible one, which likewise holds priori. In the above proposi­ a tion, therefore, the beginning of a deduction of the pure concepts of the understanding has been made, in which, since the categories arise independently from sensibility merely in the understanding, I must abstract from the way in which the manifold for an empirical intuition is given, in order to attend only to the unity that is added to the intu­ ition through the understanding by means of the category. In the sequel (§ 26) it will be shown from the way in which the empirical intuition is given in sensibility that its unity can be none other than the one the cat- B 145 egory prescribes to the manifold of a given intuition in general according to the preceding § 20; thus by the explanation of itsb priori validity a in regard to all objects of our senses the aim of the deduction will first be fully attained.
 
 In the above proof, however, I still could not abstract from one point, namely, from the fact that the manifold for intuition must already be given prior to the synthesis of understanding and independently from it; how, however, is here left undetermined. For if I wanted to think of an understanding that itself intuited (as, say, a divine understanding, which would not represent given objects, but through whose represen­ tation the objects would themselves at the same time be given, or pro­ duced), then the categories would have no significance at all with regard to such a cognition. They are only rules for an understanding whose en­ tire capacityc consists in thinking, i.e., in the action of bringing the syn­ thesis of the manifold that is given to it in intuition from elsewhere to the unity of apperception, which therefore cognizes nothing at all by * The ground of proof rests on the represented unity of intuition through B 144 which an object is given, which always includes a synthesis of the manifold that is given for an intuition, and already contains the relation of the latter to unity of apperception.
 
 a Einer, again capitalized.
 
 The antecedent is probably "the category" in the preceding clause, but it could also be b "the unity," and thus the translation has been left ambiguous.
 
 , Vermijgen 253 Doctrine of Elements.
 
