Ch. II. Sec. III A826/B8S4 Now we must concede that the thesis of the existence of God belongs to doctrinal belief. For although with regard to theoretical knowledge of the world I have nothing at my command that necessarily presup­ poses this thought as the condition of my explanations of the appear­ ances of the world, but am rather obliged to make use of my reason as if everything were mere nature, purposive unity is still so important a condition of the application of reason to nature that I cannot pass it by, especially since experience liberally supplies examples of it. But I know no other condition for this unity that could serve me as a clue for the investigation of nature except insofar as I presuppose that a highest in­ telligence has arranged everything in accordance with the wisest ends.
 
 Consequently, the presupposition of a wise author of the world is a con­ dition of an aim which is, to be sure, contingent but yet not inconsid­ erable, namely that of having a guide for the investigation of nature.
 
 The outcome of my experiments also so often confirms the usefulness of this presupposition, and nothing can be decisively said against it, so that I would say too little if I called my taking it to be true merely hav­ ing an opinion, but rather even in this theoretical relationa it can be said that I firmly believe in God; but in this case this belief must not strictly be called practical, but must be called a doctrinal belief, which the theA827/B8SS ology of nature (physico-theology) must everywhere necessarily pro­ duce. In regard to this same wisdom, in respect of the magnificent equipment of human nature and the shortness of life which is so ill suited to it, there is likewise to be found sufficient ground for a doctri­ nal belief in the future life of the human soul.
 
 The expression of belief is in such cases an expression of modesty from an objective point of view, but at the same time of the firmness of confidence in a subjective one. If here too I would call merely theo­ retically taking something to be true only an hypothesis that I would be justified in assuming, I would thereby make myself liable for more of a concept of the constitution of a world-cause and of another world than I can really boast of; for of that which I even only assume as an hypoth­ esis I must know at least enough of its properties so that I need invent not its concept but only its existence. The word "belief," however, concerns only the direction that an idea gives me and the subjective in­ fluence on the advancement of my actions of reason that holds me fast to it, even though I am not in a position to give an account of it from a speculative point of view.
 
 But there is something unstable about merely doctrinal belief; one is often put off from it by difficulties that come up in speculation, al­ A828/B8S6 though, to be sure, one inexorably returns to it again.
 
 It is entirely otherwise in the case of moral belief. For there it is aba Verhiiltnisse 688 On having opinions, knowing, and believing solutely necessary that something must happen, namely, that I fulfill the moral law in all points.
 
