Ch. II. Sec. II good of a world into which we must without exception transpose our­ selves in accordance with the precepts of pure but practical reason, and which, of course, is only an intelligible world, since the sensible world does not promise us that sort of systematic unity of ends, the reality of which can be grounded on nothing other than the presupposition of a highest original good, since self-sufficient reason, armed with all of the sufficiency of a supreme cause, in accordance with the most perfect pur­ posiveness, grounds, conserves, and completes the order of things that is universal though well hidden from us in the sensible world.
 
 Now this moral theology has the peculiar advantage over the specu­ lative one that it inexorably leads to the concept of a single, most per­ fect, and rational primordial being, of which speculative theology could not on objective grounds give us even a hint, let alone convince us. For neither in speculative nor in natural theology, as far as reason may lead us, do we find even a single significant ground for assuming a A815/B843 singlea being to set before all natural causes, on which we would at the same time have sufficient cause to make the latter dependent in every way. On the contrary, if, from the standpoint of moral unity, we assess the cause that can alone provide this with the appropriate effecrl' and thus obligating force for us, as a necessary law of the world, then there must be a single supreme will, which comprehends all these laws in it­ self. For how would we find complete unity of purposes among differ­ ent wills? This will must be omnipotent, so that all of nature and its relation to morality in the world are subject to it; omniscient, so that it cognizes the inmost dispositions and their moral worth; omnipresent, so that it is immediately ready for every need that is demanded by the highest good for the world; eternal, so that this agreement of nature and freedom is not lacking at any time, etc.
 
 But this systematic unity of ends in this world of intelligences, which, though as mere nature it can only be called the sensible world, as a sys­ tem of freedom can be called an intelligible, i.e., moral world (regnum gratiae),c also leads inexorably to the purposive unity of all things that constitute this great whole, in accordance with universal laws of nature, just as the first does in accordance with universal and necessary moral laws, and unifies practical with speculative reason. The world must be ASI6/ B 844 represented as having arisen out of an idea if it is to be in agreement with that use of reason without which we would hold ourselves unwor­ thy of reason, namely the moral use, which depends throughout on the idea of the highest good. All research into nature is thereby directed to­ ward the form of a system of ends, and becomes, in its fullest extension, " Emphasized in the first edition.
 
 b Effekt , realm of grace 682 On the ideal of the highest good physico-theology.
 
