For the object can never come be­ fore you, because it cannot be given in any possible experience. With all possible perceptions, you always remain caught up among conditions, whether in space or in time, and you never get to the unconditioned, so as to make out whether this unconditioned is to be posited in an ab­ solute beginning of the synthesis or in the absolute totality of the series without a beginning. The whole,h in an empirical signification, is always only comparative. The absolute whole of magnitude (the world-whole), of division, of descent, of the conditions of existence in general, to­ gether with all the questions about whether these are to come about through a finite or an endlessly continuing synthesis, has nothing to do with any possible experience. For example, you will not be able to ex­ plain the appearance of a body the least bit better, or even any differ­ ently, whether you assume that it consists of simple parts or completely of parts that are always composite; for no simple appearance can come before you, and neither can any infinite composition. Appearances re­ quire to be explained only insofar as their conditions of explanation are given in perception, but everything that can ever be given in it, taken together in an absolute whole,c is not itself any perception.d But it is really this whole' for which an explanation is being demanded in the transcendental problems of reason.
 
 Since, therefore, the solution to these problems can never occur in ex­ perience, you cannot say that it is uncertain what is to be ascribed to the object regarding them. For your object is merely in your brain! and can­ not be given at all outside it; hence all you have to worry about is agree­ ing with yourself, and avoiding the amphiboly that would make your idea into a putative representation of something given empirically, and thus of an objectg to be cognized in accordance with the laws of experi­ ence. Thus the dogmatic solution is not merely uncertain, but impossi­ ble. The critical solution, however, which can be completely certain, does not consider the question objectively at all, but instead asks about the foundations of the cognition in which it is grounded.
 
 a kann eure Frage keineswegs ...a ufgegeben sein b All , absoluten Ganzen d • • • i st selbst eine Warnehmung ( " ...i s itself a perception"); but the sense seems to require keine rather than eine, and following Erdmann we have adopted this reading.
 
 , All f Gehirne Object g 507 Doctrine of Elements.
 
