Further, Kant's argument that both metaphysics and morality depend upon indemonstrable material principles, and not just formal or logical principles, is clearly preparing the way for the fundamental tenet of his mature theoretical and practical philosophy that the basic propositions of both are synthetic yet a priori judgments. But Kant's conception of philosophical method in the Inquiry has not yet caught up to this recog­ nition: he is at a loss to explain how we know these "indemonstrable" principles when the method of philosophy is still considered to be ana­ lytic, rather than synthetic like the method of mathematics. Before Kant's mature work could be written, he would have to discover a philo­ sophical method that could yield "material" or synthetic judgments.
 
 This would be the philosophical work of the I770S that would finally pave the way for the Critique of Pure Reason.
 
 Once Kant takes this further step, however, the contrast between mathematics and philosophy provided in the Inquiry will have to be re­ vised. The difference between mathematics and philosophy will no longer simply be that the former uses the synthetic method and the lat­ ter the analytical method. On Kant's mature account, both mathemat­ ics and philosophy must use a synthetic method. This does not mean that the account of the Inquiry will be completely surrendered, but rather that the difference between the concrete constructions of math­ ematics and the abstract results of philosophy will have to be recast as a difference within the synthetic method: The use of the synthetic method in mathematics will yield synthetic yet certain results about de­ terminate objects, whereas the use of the synthetic method in philosophy will yield synthetic yet certain principles for the experience of objects, or what Kant will call "schemata" of the pure concepts of the understand­ ing, "the true and sole conditions for providing [these concepts] with a relation to objects" (A I46/B 185). Thus the Inquiry already contains key aspects of Kant's mature theory of mathematics, but does not yet see that both mathematics and philosophy must use synthetic methods.
 
 Once Kant sees this, however, then the Inquiry's distinction between the concrete results of mathematics and the abstract results of philosophy can be retained as the difference between the construction of determi­ nate mathematical objects and the construction of philosophical princi­ ples for the possibility of the experience of objects in general.S4 The last of the essays of 1762-63, the Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy, focuses on a substantive rather than a methodological issue. Kant considers a variety of relationships that must be construed as real opposition rather than logical contradic­ tion: positive and negative numbers, motion in opposite directions, 34 Introduction pleasure and pain.
 
