Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II still deceives though it does not defraud and which thus can be rendered harmless but never destroyed.
 
 Such a dialectical doctrine will relate not to the unity of understand­ ing in concepts of experience, but to the unity of reason in mere ideas, whose conditions, since, as a synthesis according to rules, must first be congruent with the understanding, and yet at the same time, as the ab­ solute unity of this synthesis, must be congruent with reason, will be too large for the understanding if this unity is to be adequate to the unity of reason, and yet too small for reason if they are suited to the under­ standing; from this there must arise a contradiction that cannot be avoided no matter how one may try.
 
 These sophistical a assertions thus open up a dialectical battlefield, where each party will keep the upper hand as long as it is allowed to atA423 tack, and will certainly defeat that which is compelled to conduct itself b merely defensively. Hence hardy knights, whether they support the good or the bad cause, are certain of carrying away the laurels of victory if only they take care to have the prerogative of making the last attack, and are not bound to resist a new assault from the opponent. One can easily imagine that from time immemorial this arena has often been en­ tered, both sides gaining many victories, but that each time the final B4SI victory was decisive merely because care was taken that the champion of the good cause held the field alone, his opponent having been for­ bidden to take up his weapons again. As impartial referees we have to leave entirely aside whether it is a good or a bad cause for which the combatants are fighting, and just let them settle the matter themselves.
 
 Perhaps after they have exhausted rather than injured each other, they will see on their own that their dispute is nugatory, and part as good friends.
 
 This method of watching or even occasioning a contest between as­ sertions, not in order to decide it to the advantage of one party or the other, but to investigate whether the object of the dispute is not perhaps a mere mirage at which each would snatch in vain without being able A424 to gain anything even if he met with no resistance -this procedure, I say, can be called the skeptical method. It is entirely different from skepticism, a principle of artfuld and scientific ignorance that under­ mines the foundations of all cognition, in order, if possible, to leave no reliability or certainty anywhere. For the skeptical method aims at cer­ tainty, seeking to discover the point of misunderstanding in disputes B4S2 that are honestly intended and conducted with intelligence by both verniinftelnden a b veifahren; in the first edition, the word is fohren (carry on).
 
 Blendwerk , kunstmaflig d 468 Section II.
 
