System of transcendental ideas contain the totality of the condition, assuming that we could never suc­ ceed in grasping it; and the whole series must be unconditionally true if the conditioned, which is regarded as a consequence arising from it, is supposed to count as true. This is a demand of reason, which declares its cognition to be determined a priori and necessary either as it is in it­ self -in which case it needs no grounds -or else -if it is derived -as a member of a series of grounds that is itself unconditionally true.
 
 The first book of the transcendental dialectic Third section The system of the transcendental ideas.
 
 What we have to do with here is not a logical dialectic that abstracts from every content of cognition and merely discovers false illusion in the form of syllogisms, but rather a transcendental dialectic, that, fully a priori, is supposed to contain both the origin of certain cognitions from pure reason and inferred concepts, whose object cannot be given empirically at all, and so lies wholly outside the faculty of the pure un­ derstanding. We have gathered from the natural relation that the tran­ scendental use of our cognition must have in its inferences as well as in its judgments that there will be only three species of dialectical infer­ ences, relating to the three species of inference by which reason can ar­ rive at cognitions from principles;a and that in everything the concern of reason is to ascend from the conditioned synthesis, to which the un­ derstanding always remains bound, toward the unconditioned, which the understanding can never reach.
 
 Now what is universal in every relation that our representations can have is r) the relation to the subject, 2) the relation to objects, b and in­ B391 deed either asC appearances, or as objects of thinking in general. If we A334 combine this subdivision with the above division, then all the relationd of representations of which we can make either a concept or an idea are of three sorts: ) the relatione to the subject, 2) to the manifold of the I object! in appearance, and 3) to all things in general. '9 Now all pure concepts have to do generally with the synthetic unity of representations, but concepts of pure reason (transcendental ideas) have to do with the unconditioned synthetic unity of all conditions in general. Consequently, all transcendental ideas will be brought under Principien a Objecte b C In the first edition: entweder erstlich als, which could be translated "either firstly as," or "either only as." Verhdltnis d Verhdltnis e f Object 405 Doctrine of Elements.
 
