Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II <A> myself, which, however, is impossible. For only because I ascribe all perceptions to one consciousness (of original apperception) can I say of all perceptions that I am conscious of them. There must therefore be an objective ground, i.e., one that can be understood priori to all empir­ a icallaws of the imagination, on which rests the possibility, indeed even the necessity of a law extending through all appearances, a law, namely, for regarding them throughout as data of sense that are associable in themselves and subject to universal laws of a thoroughgoing connection in reproduction. I call this objective ground of all association of ap­ pearances their affinity. But we can never encounter this anywhere ex­ cept in the principle of the unity of apperception with regard to all cognitions that are to belong to me. In accordance with this principle all appearances whatever must come into the mind or be apprehended in such a way that they are in agreement with the unity of apperception, which would be impossible without synthetic unity in their connection, which is thus also objectively necessary.
 
 AI23 The objective unity of all (empirical) consciousness in one con­ sciousness (of original apperception) is thus the necessary condition even of all possible perception, and the affinity of all appearances (near or remote) is a necessary consequence of a synthesis in the imagination that is grounded priori on rules.
 
 a The imagination is therefore also a faculty of a synthesis priori, on a account of which we give it the name of productive imagination, and, insofar as its aim in regard to all the manifold of appearance is nothing further than the necessary unity in their synthesis, this can be called the transcendental function of the imagination. It is therefore certainly strange, yet from what has been said thus far obvious, that it is only by means of this transcendental function of the imagination that even the affinity of appearances, and with it the association and through the lat­ ter finally reproduction in accordance with laws, and consequently ex­ perience itself, become possible; for without them no concepts of objects at all would converge into an experience.
 
 For the standing and lasting I (of pure apperception) constitutes the correlate of all of our representations, so far as it is merely possible to become conscious of them, and all consciousness belongs to an all-em­ bracing pure apperception just as all sensible intuition as representation belongs to a pure inner intuition, namely that of time. It is this apper­ ception that must be added to the pure imagination in order to make its function intellectual. For in itself the synthesis of the imagination, al­ though exercised priori, is nevertheless always sensible, for it combines a the manifold only as it appears in intuition, e.g., the shape of a triangle.
 
 Through the relationa of the manifold to the unity of apperception, a Verhiiltnis 240 Section III.
 
