Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II one is of course allowed to admit as a transcendental object,a but about which one knows nothing; but for the assumption of such an object, in thinking it as a thing determinable by its distinguishing and inner predA 566/ B 594 icates, we have on our side neither grounds of its possibility (since it is independent of all concepts of experience) nor the least justification, and so it is a mere thought-entity. Nevertheless, among the cosmolog­ ical ideas, the one occasioning the fourth antinomy presses us to ven­ ture so far as to take this step. For the existence of appearances, not grounded in the least within itself but always conditioned, demands that we look around us for something different from all appearances, hence for an intelligible object, with which this contingency would stop. But if we once take the liberty of assuming a reality subsisting by itselfb out­ side the entire field of sensibility, then appearances are regardedC only as contingent ways intelligible objects are represented by beings who are themselves intelligences; and because of this, nothing is left for us but the analogy by which we utilize concepts of experience in making some sort of concept of intelligible things, with which we have not the least acquaintance as they are in themselves. Because we cannot be­ come acquainted with the contingent except through experience, but are here concerned with things which are not to be objects of experi­ ence at all, we have to derive our acquaintance d with them from what is necessary in itself, from pure concepts of things in generaLe Thus the first step we take beyond the sensible world compels us, in acquiring A 567 / B 595 new knowledge! to begin with the investigation of the absolutely nec­ essary being, and to derive from the concepts of it the concepts of all things insofar as they are merely intelligible; we will set about this at­ tempt in the following chapter.
 
 a Object for sich b , Reading, with Erdmann, anzusehen sind for anzusehen.
 
 Kenntnis d , Kant adds in his copy of the first edition: "Freedom makes for the greatest difficulty, be­ cause it simultaneously combines a being that belongs to the sensible world with the in­ tellectual according to a given law, and thereby also with God." (E CLXXVII, p. 52; 23:42) f Kenntnisse 550 The Second Book of the Transcendental Dialectic Chapter Three The ideal of pure reason8s Section One The ideal in general.
 
