Ch. 1. Sec. III possibility of which is not demonstrable, and which thus cannot be used to ground the explanation of actual appearances through an hypothesis.
 
 It is entirely permissible to think the soul as simple in order, in accor­ dance with this idea, to make a complete and necessary unity of all powers of the mind, even though one cannot have insight into it in con­ creto, into the principlea of our judgment of its inner appearances. But to assume the soul as simple substance (a transcendent concept) would be a proposition that would not only be indemonstrable (as is the case A 772 / B 800 with many physical hypotheses), but which would also be hazarded en­ tirely arbitrarily and blindly, since the simple cannot come forth in any experience at all, and, if one here understands by substance the per­ sistent objectb of sensible intuition, there can be no insight at all into the possibility of a simple appearance. Merely intelligible beings or merely intelligible properties of the things of the sensible world cannot be assumed as opinions with any well-founded authority of reason, al­ though (since one has no concept of either their possibility or their im­ possibility) they also cannot be dogmatically denied on the basis of any supposedly better insight.
 
 For the explanation of given appearances no other things and grounds of explanation can be adduced than those which are connected to the given appearances by already known laws of appearances. A tran­ scendental hypothesis, in which a mere idea of reason would be used for the explanation of things in nature, would thus be no explanation at all, since that which one does not adequately understand on the basis of known empirical principlesc would be explained by means of something about which one understands nothing at all. And the principled of such an hypothesis would really serve only for the satisfaction of reason and not for the advancement of the use of the understanding in regard to objects. Order and purposiveness in nature must in turn be explained from natural grounds and in accordance with laws of nature, and here A 773/ B 801 even the wildest hypotheses, as long as they are physical, are more tol­ erable than a hyperphysical hypothesis, i.e., the appeal to a divine au­ thor, which one presupposes to this end. For that would be a principle' of lazy reason (ignava ratio), at once bypassing all causes, of whose ob­ jective reality, at least as far as possibility is concerned, one could still learn through continued experience, in order to take refuge in a mere idea, which is very comforting to reason. As far as the absolute totality of the ground of explanation in the series of those causes is concerned, a Princip b Object C Principien d Princip , Princip 660 The discipline of pure reason in hypotheses however, that can create no difficulty with regard to the objects of the world,a for since these are nothing but appearances, nothing that is completed in the synthesis of the series of conditions can be hoped for from them.
 
