On the highest principle of synthetic judgments ond predicate are affirmed at the same time. If I say "A person who is unlearned is not learned," the condition at the same time must hold; for one who is unlearned at one time can very well be learned at another time. But if I say that "No unlearned person is learned," then the proposition is analytic, since the mark (of unlearnedness) is now com­ prised in the concept of the subject, and then the negative proposition follows immediately from the principle of contradiction, without the condition at the same time having to be added. This is also then the cause why I have above so altered the formula of it that the nature of an B 193 analytic proposition is thereby clearly expressed.
 
 Of the System of the Principles of Pure Understanding A 154 Second Section On the supreme principle of all synthetic judgments.56 The explanation of the possibility of synthetic judgments is a problem with which general logic has nothing to do, indeed whose name it need not even know. But in a transcendental logic it is the most important business of all, and indeed the only business if the issue is the possibil­ ity of synthetic a priori judgments and likewise the conditions and the domain of their validity. For by completing this task transcendental logic can fully satisfy its goal of determining the domain and boundaries of pure understanding.
 
 In the analytic judgment I remain with the given concept in order to discern something about it. If it is an affirmative judgment, I only as­ cribe to this concept that which is already thought in it; if it is a nega­ tive judgment, I only exclude the opposite of this concept from it. In synthetic judgments, however, I am to go beyond the given concept in order to consider something entirely different from what is thought in it as in a relation° to it, a relationb which is therefore never one of either B194 identity, or contradiction, and one where neither the truth nor the error A155 of the judgment can be seen in the judgment itself.
 
 If it is thus conceded that one must go beyond a given concept in order to compare it synthetically with another, then a third thing is nec­ essary in which alone the synthesis of two concepts can originate. But now what is this third thing, as the medium of all synthetic judgments?
 
 There is only one totalityc in which all of our representations are con­ tained, namely inner sense and its a priori form, time. The synthesis of representations rests on the imagination, but their synthetic unity (which is requisite for judgment), on the unity of apperception. Herein a Verhdltnis Verhdltnis b Inbegriff , 281 Doctrine of Elements.
 
