Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III Through this possession of all reality, however, there is also repre­ sented the concept of a thing in itself which is thoroughly determined, and the concept of an ens realissimuma is the concept of an individual being, because of all possible opposed predicates, one, namely that which belongs absolutely to being, is encountered in its determination.
 
 Thus it is a transcendental ideal which is the ground of the thorough­ going determination that is necessarily encountered in everything exist­ ing, and which constitutes the supreme and complete material condition of its possibility, to which all thinking of objects in general must, as re­ gards the content of that thinking, be traced back. It is, however, also the one single genuine ideal of which human reason is capable, because only in this one single case is an -in itself universal -concept of one thing thoroughly determined through itself, and cognized as the repre­ sentation of an individual.
 
 The logical determination of a concept through reason rests on a dis­ junctive syllogism, in which the major premise contains a logical division (the division of the sphere of a general concept), the minor premise reA 577/B 605 stricts this sphere to one part, and the conclusion determines the con­ cept through this part. The general concept of a reality in general cannot be divided up a priori, because apart from experience one is acquainted with no determinate species of reality that would be contained under that genus. Thus the transcendental major premise for the thoroughgo­ ing determination of all things is none other than the representation of the sum total of all reality, a concept that comprehends all predicates as regards their transcendental content not merely under itself, but within itself; and the thoroughgoing determination of every thing rests on the limitation of this All of reality, in that some of it is ascribed to the thing and the rest excluded from it, which agrees with the "either/or" of the disjunctive major premise and the determination of the object through one of the members of this division in the minor premise.b The use of reason through which it grounds its determination of all things in the transcendental ideal is, accordingly, analogous to its procedure in dis­ junctive syllogisms; that was the proposition on which I above89 grounded the systematic division of all transcendental ideas, according to which they were generated parallel and corresponding to the three kinds of syllogisms.
 
 a "most real being"; Kant declines the Latin phrase in the genitive.
 
 b Kant adds in his copy of the first edition: "the principle [Princip] of determination says only that if a concept of a thing is to be determined, it could be determined only through one of the two: A or non-A. The principle [Satz] of thoroughgoing determination says that every thing (as existing, i.e., in respect of everything possible) is determined in respect of all possible predicates." (E CLXXIX, p. 53; 23:42) 556 Section II.
 
