Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> rule: Whatever is connected with a perception according to em­ pirical laws, is actualY Only this deception, as much as the measures taken against it, concerns idealism as much as dualism, since here it is only a question of the form of experience. In order to refute empirical idealism, as a false scruple concerning the objective reality of our outer perceptions, it is already sufficient that outer perception immediately A 3 77 proves a reality in space, which space, though in itself it is only a mere form of representations, nevertheless has objective reality in regard to all outer appearances (which are also nothing but mere representa­ tions); and it is likewise sufficient to refute empirical idealism that with­ out perception even fictions and dreams are not possible, so our outer senses, as regards the d t from which experience can arise, have actual aa corresponding objects in space.
 
 The dogmatic idealist would be one who denies the existence of matter, the skeptical idealist one who doubts them because he holds them to be unprovable.33 The former can be so only because he believes he can find contradictions in the possibility of a matter in general, and just now we are not yet dealing with that. The following section on di­ alectical inferences, which represents reason in its internal conflict re­ garding the concepts belonging to the possibility of the connection of experience, will also help us out of this difficulty.34 The skeptical ideal­ ist, however, who impugns merely the grounds of our assertion of the existence of matter and declares insufficient our persuasion of it, which is grounded on immediate perception, is a benefactor to human reason, since he requires us to open our eyes well even in the smallest steps of A 3 78 common experience, and not immediately to take for a well-earned pos­ session what we perhaps obtain only surreptitiously. The utility created by these idealistic projects is now clearly before our eyes. They drive us forcefully -if we do not want to become tangled in confusions in our commonest assertions -to regard all perceptions, whether they are called inner or outer, merely as a consciousness of something that de­ pends on our sensibility, and to regard their external objects not as things in themselves but only as representations, of which we can be­ come immediately conscious like any other representation, but which are called external because they depend on that sense which we call outer sense; its intuition is space, but it is itself nothing other than an inner mode of representation, in which certain perceptions are con­ nected with one another.
 
 If we let outer objects count as things in themselves, then it is ab­ solutely impossible to comprehend how we are to acquire cognition of their reality outside us, since we base this merely on the representation, which is in us. For one cannot have sensation outside oneself, but only in oneself, and the whole of self-consciousness therefore provides noth­ ing other than merely our own determinations. Skeptical idealism thus 430 Chapter I.
 
