If this cau­ tion is always used, and if before one even attempts the proof one wisely considers how and with what basis for hope one could expect such an expansion through pure reason, and whence, in cases of this sort, one would derive these insights, which are not developed from concepts and A 786/ B 814 which also cannot be anticipated in relation to possible experience, then one can be spared many difficult and nevertheless fruitless efforts, since one would not attribute to reason anything which obviously exceeds its capacity,a but would rather subject reason, which does not gladly suffer constraint in the paroxysms of its lust for speculative expansion, to the discipline of abstinence.
 
 The first rule, therefore, is this: to attempt no transcendental proofs without having first considered whence one can justifiably derive the principles on which one intends to build and with what right one can expect success in inferences from them. If they are principles of the un­ derstanding (e.g., of causality), then it is in vain to try to arrive by their means at ideas of pure reason; for those principles are valid only for ob­ jects of possible experience. If they are to be principles from pure rea­ son, then again all effort is in vain. For reason has principles, to be sure, but as objective principles they are all dialectical, and can only be valid as regulative principlesb of the systematically coherent use of experi­ ence. But if such ostensible proofs are already given, then oppose the non liquetC of your mature power of judgment against their deceptive conviction, and even if you cannot yet penetrate their deception you A 787/ B 81 5 still have a perfect right to demand the deduction of the principles that are used in them, which, if they are supposed to have arisen from pure reason, will never be provided for you. And thus it is not even necessary for you to concern yourself with the development and refutation of each groundless illusion, but you can dispose of the entire heap of these inexhaustible tricks of dialectic at once in the court of a critical reason, which demands laws.
 
 The second peculiarity of transcendental proofs is this: that for each transcendental proposition only a single proof can be found. If I am to draw an inference not from concepts but rather from the intuition which corresponds to a concept, whether it be a pure intuition, as in mathematics, or an empirical intuition, as in natural science, the intu­ ition that grounds the inference offers me a manifold of material for synthetic propositions that I can connect in more than one way, thus al­ lowing me to reach the same proposition by different paths since I may start out from more than one point.
 
 a VermiJiien b Principien , The verdict "not proved." 667 Doctrine of Method.
 
