On the empirical use of the regulative principle I.
 
 Resolution of the cosmological idea of the totality of the composition of the appearances of a world-whole.
 
 Here, as well as in the case of the remaining cosmological questions, the ground of the regulative principle of reason is the proposition that in the empirical regress there can be encountered no experience of an ab­ solute boundary, and hence no experience of a condition as one that is absolutely unconditioned empirically. The reason for this, however, is that such an experience would have to contain in itself a bounding of ap­ pearance by nothing, or by the void, which the regress, carried on far enough, would have to encounter by means of a perception -which is impossible.
 
 Now this proposition, which says only that in the empirical regress I can always attain only to a condition that must itself in turn be regarded A5I8/B 546 as empirically conditioned, contains the rule in terminsb that however far I may have come in the ascending series, I must always inquire after a higher member of the series, whether or not this member may come to be known to me through experience.
 
 Now nothing further is required for the resolution of the first cos­ mological problem except to settle whether, in the regress to the un­ conditioned magnitude of the world-whole (in time and in space), this never bounded ascent can be called a regress to infinity, or only an in­ determinately continued regress (in indefinitum).
 
 The merely general representation of the series of all past states of the world, as well as of the things that simultaneously exist in the world's space, is nothing other than a possible empirical regress that I think, though still indeterminately, and through which alone there can arise the concept of such a series of conditions for a given perception.* Now I always have the world-whole only in concept, but by no means AF9/B 547 (as a whole) in intuition. Thus I cannot infer from its magnitude to the magnitude of the regress, and determine the latter according to the for* This world-series' can thus be neither bigger nor smaller than the possible A 5 18/B 546 empirical regress, on which alone its concept rests. And since this cannot yield a determinate infinite, nor yet something determinately finite (something absolutely bounded), it is clear from this that we can assume the magnitude of the world to be neither finite nor infinite, since the regress (through which this magnitude is represented) admits of neither of the two.
 
 a Princips b in its terms Weltreihe C 525 Doctrine of Elements.
 
