On the Ground of the Distinction <A> world into a world of sense and a world of understanding, can therefore not be permitted at all, although concepts certainly permit of division into sensible and intellectual ones; for one cannot determine any object for the latter, and therefore also cannot pass them off as objectively valid. If one abandons the senses, how will one make comprehensible that our categories (which would be the only remaining concepts for A 2 56 noumena)a still signify anything at all, since for their relation to anyobject something more than merely the unity of thinking must be given, namely a possible intuition, to which they can be applied? Nevertheless the concept of a noumenon,b taken merely problematically, remains not only admissible, but even unavoidable, as a concept setting limits to sensibility. But in that case it is not a special intelligible object for our understanding; rather an understanding to which it would belong is itself a problem, namely, that of cognizing its object not discursively through categories but intuitively in a non-sensible intuition, the possi- B 3 12 bility of which we cannot in the least represent. Now in this way our understanding acquires a negative expansion, i.e., it is not limited by sensibility, but rather limits it by calling things in themselves (not considered as appearances) noumena. But it also immediately sets boundaries for itself, not cognizing these things through categories, hence merely thinking them under the name of an unknown something.
 
 Yet I find in the writings of the moderns an entirely different use of the expressions of a mundi sensibilis and intelligibilis,< which entirely diverges from the sense of the ancients, which is not itself a problem, but A257 which is also nothing but an empty trafficking with words. In accordance with this usage some have been pleased to call the sum total of appearances, so far as it is intuited, the world of sense, but the connectiond of them insofar as it is thought in accordance with general laws of the un­ derstanding, the world of understanding. Theoretical astronomy, which B 3 1 3 expounds the mere observation of the starry heavens, would be the former, contemplative astronomy on the contrary (explained, say, according to the Copernican world-system or even according to Newton's laws of gravitation) would be the latter, making an intelligible world repre­ sentable. But such a perversion of words is a merely sophistical evasion for escaping from a difficult question by reducing its sense to a com­ monplace. WIth regard to appearances, to be sure, both understanding and reason can be used; but it must be asked whether they would still have any use if the object were not appearance (noumenon), and one takes it in this sense if one thinks of it as merely intelligible, i.e., as given to a Not in roman type.
 
 b Here Kant uses the Latin singular genitive Noumeni.
 
 , "sensible and intelligible worlds." At this point the second edition adds a note; see B 312.
 
 d Zusammenhang 351 Doctrine of Elements.
 
