Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> tions of which I am conscious. Synthetic unity of the manifold of in­ tuitions, as given priori, is thus the ground of the identity of ap­ a perception itself, which precedes priori all my determinate thinking.
 
 a Combination does not lie in the objects, however, and cannot as it were be borrowed from them through perception and by that means first B 135 taken up into the understanding, but is rather only an operation of the understanding, which is itself nothing further than the faculty of com­ bining priori and bringing the manifold of given representations under a unity of apperception, which principle is the supreme one in the whole of human cognition.35 Now this principle of the necessary unity of apperception is, to be sure, itself identical, thus an analytical proposition, yet it declares as necessary a synthesis of the manifold given in an intuition, without which that thoroughgoing identity of self-consciousness could not be thought. For through the I, as a simple representation, nothing mani­ fold is given; it can only be given in the intuition, which is distinct from it, and thought through combination in a consciousness. An under­ standing, in which through self-consciousness all of the manifold would at the same time be given, would intuit; ours can only think and must seek the intuition in the senses. I am therefore conscious of the identi­ cal self in regard to the manifold of the representations that are given to me in an intuition because I call them all together my representa­ tions, which constitute one. But that is as much as to say that I am con­ scious priori of their necessary synthesis, which is called the original a synthetic unity of apperception, under which all representations given :B 136 to me stand, but under which they must also be brought by means of a synthesis.
 
 § 17· The principle of the synthetic unity of apperception is the supreme principle of all use of the understanding.
 
 The supreme principle of the possibility of all intuition in relation to sensibility was, according to the Transcendental Aesthetic, that all the manifold of sensibility stand under the formal conditions of space and time. The supreme principle of all intuition in relation to the under­ standing is that all the manifold of intuition stand under conditions of the original synthetic unity of apperception.*,36 All the manifold repre* Space and time and all their parts are intuitions, thus individual representa­ tions along with the manifold that they contain in themselves (see the Transcendental Aesthetic), thus they are not mere concepts by means of which the same consciousness is contained in many representations, but rather are many representations that are contained in one and in the consciousness of it; they are thus found to be composite, and consequently the unity of con248 Section II.
 
