In the second chapter of the "Analytic of Principles," the "System of All Principles," Kant organizes the principles of pure understanding under four headings corresponding to the four groups of categories.
 
 For each of the first two groups of categories, those listed under "Quantity" and "Quality," Kant supplies a single "mathematical" prin­ ciple meant to guarantee the application to empirical objects of certain parts of mathematics, which are in turn supposed to be associated with certain parts of the logic of judgment. The first principle, under the title "Axioms of Intuition," guarantees that the a priori mathematics of > extensive magnitudes, where wholes are measured by their discrete parts, applies to empirical objects because these are given in space and time which are themselves extensive magnitudes (AI62-6IB202-7).
 
 The general implication of this argument is that the empirical use of the logical quantifiers (one, some, all) depends on the division of the em­ pirical manifold into distinct spatiotemporal regions. The second prin­ ciple, under the title of the "Anticipations of Perception," guarantees that the mathematics of intensive magnitudes applies to the "real in space," or that properties such as color or heat, or material forces such as weight or impenetrability, must exist in a continuum of degrees be­ cause our sensations of them are continuously variable (A 166-761 B 207-18). Here Kant's argument is that since the use of the logical functions of affirmation and negation is dependent on the presence or absence of sensations that come in continuously varying degrees, the empirical use of the categories of "Quality" is connected with the math­ ematics of intensive magnitudes in a way that could not have been pre­ dicted from an analysis of the logical content of these categories themselves (another example of how a synthetic a priori rather than merely analytic judgment arises).
 
 Switching from "mathematical" to "dynamical" principles, the third section of the "System," the "Analogies of Experience," concerns the necessary relations among what is given in space and time, and thus gives expression to the necessary conditions for the application of the cate­ gories of "Relation" to empirical objects. Many interpreters consider this the most important section of the Critique. In the first analogy, Kant argues that the unity of time implies that all change must consist in the alteration of states in an underlying substance, whose existence and quantity must be unchangeable or conserved (A 182-6iB 224-32). In the second analogy, Kant argues that we can make determinate judgments about the objective succession of events as contrasted to merely sub­ jective successions of representations only if every objective alteration follows a necessary rule of succession, or a causal law (A 1 86-2 III B 232-' 56). In the third analogy, Kant argues that determinate judgments 11 Introduction that objects (or states of substance) in different regions of space exist si­ multaneously are possible only if such objects stand in the mutual causal relation of community or reciprocal interaction (A2II-15/B256-62).
 
