Systematic representation of all synthetic principles A.
 
 First Analogy.
 
 Principle of the persistence <of substance.>a,69 [In the first edition:] All appearances contain that which persists (substance) as the object itself, and that which can changeb as its mere de­ termination, i.e., a way in which the object exists.c [In the second edition:] <In all change ofa ppearances substance persists, and its quantum is neither increased nor diminished in nature.> d<Proof a tkr Substanz added in the second edition.
 
 das T¥andelbare b , The following series of notes is entered at the beginning of the "First Analogy" in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Here it must be shown that this proposition does not pertain to any other substances than those whose alteration is effected only through moving causes, and also consists only in movement, consequently in alteration of relations [Relationen]." (E LXXVII, p.
 
 31;23:30) "All arising and perishing is only the alteration of that which endures (the sub­ stance), and this does not arise and perish (thus the world also does not)." (E LXXVIII, p. 32; 23:30) "Change can only be perceived through that which persists and its alteration. For the difference of the times in which things are can only be perceived in them as parts of one and the same time. All change is only the division of time. Hence there must be something that exists throughout the entire time, since the whole is always the ground of the division. Hence substance is the substratum, and that which is changing is only the way in which this exists." (E LXXIX, P.32; 23:30) "Here the proof must be so conducted that it applies only to substances as phe­ nomena of outer sense, consequently from space, which exists at all time along with its determination.
 
 "In space all alteration is movement; for if there were something else in the relations [Relationen], then in accordance with the concept of alteration the subject would persist.
 
 Therefore everything in space would have to disappear at the same time." (E LXXX, p.
 
 32; 23:30) "If the substance persists, while the accidents change, but the substance, if all acciden­ tia are taken away, is the empty substantiale, then what is it that persists? Now everything that can be distinguished from that which changes in experience is quantity !grosse], and this can only be assessed through the magnitude of the merely relative effect in the case of equal external relations [Relationen] and therefore applies only to bodies." (E LXXXI, p. 32; 23:30-1) "Here alterations must be discussed." (E LXXIXI, p. 32; 23:3 I) The heading "Proof' and the following first paragraph in the second edition replace the d heading "Proof of this first Analogy" and this opening paragraph in the first edition: "All appearances are in time. This can determine the relation [Verhdltnis] in their ex­ istence in two ways, insofar as they exist either successively or simultaneously. In the case of the fonner time is considered as temporal series, with regard to the latter as tem­ poral domain.
 
 299 Doctrine of Elements.
 
