Critical decision of the cosmological conflict selves as either finite or infinite in their totality, because, as series of subordinated representations, they exist only in the dynamical regress; but prior to this regress, and as a series of things subsisting for them­ selves, they cannot exist at all in themselves.
 
 Accordingly, the antinomy of pure reason in its cosmological ideas is removed by showing that it is merely dialectical and a conflict due to an illusion arising from the fact that one has applied the idea of absolute totality, which is valid only as a condition of things in themselves, to ap­ pearances that exist only in representation, and that, if they constitute a series, exist in the successive regress but otherwise do not exist at all.
 
 But one can, on the contrary, draw from this antinomy a true utility, not dogmatic but critical and doctrinal utility, namely that of thereby prov­ ing indirectly the transcendental ideality of appearances, if perhaps someone did not have enough in the direct proof in the Transcendental Aesthetic. The proof would consist in this dilemma. If the world is a whole existing in itself, then it is either finite or infinite. Now the first as well as the second alternative is false (according to the proofo offered above for the antithesis on the one side and the thesis on the other).
 
 Thus it is also false that the world (the sum total of all appearances) is B 535 a whole existing in itself. From which it follows that appearances in A 507 general are nothing outside our representations, which is just what we mean by their transcendental ideality.
 
 This remark is of some importance. From it one sees that the above proofs of the fourfold antinomy are not semblances but well grounded, that is, at least on the presupposition that appearances, or a world of sense comprehending all of them within itself, are things in themselves.
 
 The conflict of the propositions drawn from it, however, uncovers a falsehood lying in this presupposition and thereby brings us to a dis­ covery about the true constitution of things as objects of sense. Thus the transcendental dialectic by no means provides support for skepti­ cism, though it does for the skeptical method, which can point to the dialectic as an example of the great utility of letting the arguments of reason confront one another in the most complete freedom; such argu­ ments, although they may not deliver what one was seeking, neverthe­ less will always deliver something useful and serviceable for the correction of our judgments.b a In the first edition: "proofs" b Notes in Kant's copy of the first edition: "In the first class of antinomical propositions both are false, because they say more than is true, namely [that there is an] absolute to­ tality of appearances.
 
 "In the second [class] both can be true, because they will say less than is required for the opposition; [for] it can [happen] that intellectual [things] are posited in place of sen­ sibles." (E CLXXI, p. 51; 23:41) 519 Doctrine of Elements.
 
