Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III tion to the others. Accordingly, this idea postulates complete unity of the understanding's cognition, through which this cognition comes to be not merely a contingent aggregate but a system interconnected in accordance with necessary laws. One cannot properly say that this idea is the concept of an object, a but only that of the thoroughgoing unity of these concepts, insofar as the idea serves the understanding as a rule.
 
 Such concepts of reason are not created by nature, rather we question nature according to these ideas, and we take our cognition to be defecA646/B674 tive as long as it is not adequate to them. Admittedly, it is hard to find pure earth, pure water, pure air, etc. Nevertheless, concepts of them are required (though as far as their complete purity is concerned, have their origin only in reason) in order appropriately to determine the share that each of these natural causes has in appearance; thus one re­ ducesb all materials to earths (mere weight, as it were), to salts and com­ bustibles (as force), and finally to water and air as vehicles (machines, as it were, by means of which the aforementioned operate), in order to ex­ plain the chemical effects of materials in accordance with the idea of a mechanism. For even though it is not actually expressed this way, it is still very easy to discover the influence of reason on the classifications of students of nature.
 
 If reason is the faculty of deriving the particular from the universal, then: Either the universal is in itself certain and given, and only judg­ ment is required for subsuming, and the particular is necessarily deter­ mined through it This I call the "apodictic" use of reason. Or the universal is assumed only problematically, and it is a mere idea, the particular being certain while the universality of the rule for this consequent is still a problem; then several particular cases, which are all certain, are tested by the rule, to see if they flow from it, and in the case in which it A647/B675 seems that all the particular cases cited follow from it, then the univer­ sality of the rule is inferred, including all subsequent cases, even those that are not given in themselves. This I will call the "hypothetical" use of reason.
 
 The hypothetical use of reason, on the basis of ideas as problematic concepts, is not properly constitutive, that is, not such that if one judges in all strictness the truth of the universal rule assumed as a hy­ pothesis thereby follows; for how is one to know all possible conse­ quences, which would prove the universality of the assumed principle if they followed from it? Rather, this use of reason is only regulative, bringing unity into particular cognitions as far as possible and thereby approximating the rule to universality.
 
 The hypothetical use of reason is therefore directed at the systema Object bringt auf b ...
 
 592 Section VII.
 
