Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Appendix us to observe our own mind with any other intuition that that of our inner sense. For in that lies the mystery of the origin of our sensibility.
 
 Its relationa to an object, b and what might be the transcendental ground of this unity, undoubtedly lie too deeply hidden for us, who know even ourselves only through inner sense, thus as appearance, to be able to use such an unsuitable tool of investigation to find out anything except al­ ways more appearances, even though we would gladly investigate their non-sensible cause.
 
 What makes this critique of the inferences from the mere actions of reflection useful above all is that it clearly establishes the nullity of all in­ ferences about objects that one simply compares with each other in the understanding, and at the same time confirms what we have chiefly em­ phasized: that although appearances cannot be comprehended among the objectsC of pure understanding as things in themselves, they are nev­ ertheless the only things by means of which our cognition can have ob­ jective reality, namely, where intuition corresponds to the concepts.
 
 If we reflect merely logically, then we simply compare our concepts with each other in the understanding, seeing whether two of them con­ tain the very same thing, whether they contradict each other or not, whether something is contained in the concept internally or is added to it, and which of them should count as given and which as a manner of thinking of that which is given. But if I apply these concepts to an ob­ ject in general (in the transcendental sense),d without further determin­ ing whether this is an object of sensible or intellectual intuition, then limitations (which do not flow from this concept) immediately show up, which pervert all empirical use of them, and by that very means prove that the representation of an object as a thing in general is not merely insufficient but rather, without sensible determinations of it and inde­ pendent of an empirical condition, contradictory in itself, thus that one must either abstract from any object (in logic), or else, if one as­ sumes an object, then one must think it under conditions of sensible in­ tuition; thus the intelligible would require an entirely special intuition, which we do not have, and in the absence of this would be nothing for us, though on the contrary appearances also cannot be objects in them­ selves. For, if I think of mere things in general, then the difference in the outer relations certainly does not constitute a difference in the thingse themselves, but rather presupposes this, and, if the concept of the one is not internally distinct from that of the other, then I merely a Beziehung Object b , Objecten Verstande d , Sacben 376 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection posit one and the same thing in different relations.
 
