Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II <A> does not at all need to have better acquaintance with the object or to pretend to better acquaintance with it; it shows only that the assertion is groundless, not that it is incorrect. The skeptical objection puts the proposition and its opposite over against one another, as objections of equal weight, each alternatively a dogma with the other as an objection A 389 to it; thus on both opposed sides it is dogmatic in appearance,a in order to annihilate entirely every judgment about the object. Thus both, the dogmatic as well as the skeptical objection, must claim as much insight into its object as is necessary to assert something about it either affir­ matively or negatively. The critical objection alone is of such a kind that it overturns a theory merely by showing that one assumes on behalf of its assertion something that is nugatory and merely imagined, thereby withdrawing from it the presumed foundation without otherwise want­ ing to decide anything about the constitution of the object.
 
 Now according to the common concepts of our reason in regard to the community in which our thinking subject stands to things outside us we are dogmatic, and regard these things as objects truly subsisting independently of us, according to a certain transcendental dualism that does not count those outer appearances as representations of the sub­ ject but rather displaces them, as the sensible intuition that provides them to us, outside us as objects,b separating them entirely from the thinking subject. Now this subreption is the foundation of all theories about the community between soul and body, and it is never asked whether this objective reality of appearances is completely correct, but rather this is taken for granted, and the sophistry is only about the way A 390 this is to be explained and comprehended. The three usual systems that have been thought up about this, really the only possible ones, are those of physical influence, of preestablished harmony, and of supernat­ ural assistance.36 The last two ways of explaining the community of the soul with mat­ ter are grounded on objections to the first, which is the conception of c the common understanding; they object, namely, that what appears as matter could not, through its immediate influence, be the cause of rep­ resentations, since these are an entirely heterogeneous species of effects.
 
 However, they cannot combine what they understand as the object of outer sense with the concept of matter, which is nothing but an appear­ ance, thus in itself a mere representation caused by some external object or other, for then they would be saying that the representations of ex­ ternal objects (appearances) could not be external causes of representa­ tions in our mind; that would be a wholly senseless objection, because it a dem Scheine nach Objecte b Vorstellung C 436 Chapter I.
 
