Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III nizes through mere intuition but always yet again through lower con­ cepts. The cognition of appearances in their thoroughgoing determi­ nacy (which is possible only through understanding) demands a cease­ lessly continuing specification of its concepts, and a progress to the varieties that always still remain, from which abstraction is made in the concept of the species and even more in that of the genus.
 
 A6S7/B68S Also this law of specification cannot be borrowed from experience; for experience can make no such extensive disclosures. Empirical spec­ ification soon stops in distinguishing the manifold, unless through the already preceding transcendental law of specification as a principlea of reason it is led to seek such disclosures and to keep on assuming them even when they do not immediately reveal themselves to the senses.
 
 That there are absorbent earths of different species (chalky earths and muriatic earths) needed for its discovery a foregoing rule of reason that made it a task for the understanding to seek for varieties, by presuppos­ ing nature to be so abundant that it presumes them. For we have an un­ derstanding only under the presupposition of varieties in nature, just as we have one only under the condition that nature's objectsb have in themselves a sameness of kind, because it is just the manifoldness of what can be grasped together under a concept that constitutes use of this concept and the business of the understanding.
 
 Reason thus prepares the field for the understanding: 1. by a princi­ ple< of sameness of kind in the manifold under higher genera, 2. by a principle of the variety of what is same in kind under lower species; and in order to complete the systematic unity it adds 3. still another law of the affinity of all concepts, which offers a continuous transition from A6S8/B686 every species to every other through a graduated increase of varieties.
 
 We can call these the principlesd of the homogeneity, specification and continuity of forms. The last arises by uniting the first two, ac­ cording as one has completed the systematic connection in the idea by ascending to higher genera, as well as descending to lower species; for then all manifolds are akin e one to another, because they are all collec­ tively descended/ through every degree of extended determination, from a single highest genus.
 
 Systematic unity under the three logical principlesg can be made pal­ pableh in the following way. One can regard every concept as a point, Princip a Objecte b , Princip Principien d verwandt e f abstammen Principien g sinnlich b 598 Section VII.
 
