Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II therefore is the possibility of synthetic judgments, and, since all three contain the sources of priori representations, also the possibility of a pure synthetic judgments, to be sought, indeed on these grounds they will even be necessary if a cognition of objects is to come about which rests solely on the synthesis of the representations.
 
 If a cognition is to have objective reality, i.e., to be related to an ob­ ject, and is to have significance and sense in that object, the object must be able to be given in some way. Without that the concepts are empty, B I95 and through them one has, to be sure, thought but not in fact cognized anything through this thinking, but rather merely played with repreI 56 sentations. To give an object, if this is not again meant only mediately, A but it is rather to be exhibited immediately in intuition, is nothing other than to relate its representation to experience (whether this be actual or still possible). Even space and time, as pure as these concepts are from everything empirical and as certain as it is that they are represented in the mind completely priori, would still be without objective validity a and without sense and significance if their necessary use on the objects of experience were not shown; indeed, their representation is a mere schema, which is always related to the reproductive imagination that calls forth the objects of experience, without which they would have no significance; and thus it is with all concepts without distinction.
 
 The possibility of experience is therefore that which gives all of our cognitions priori objective reality. Now experience rests on the syn­ a thetic unity of appearances, i.e., on a synthesis according to concepts of the object of appearances in general, without which it would not even be cognition but rather a rhapsody of perceptions, which would not fit together in any context in accordance with rules of a thoroughly con­ nected (possible) consciousness, thus not into the transcendental and B I96 necessary unity of apperception. Experience therefore has principles a of 57 its form which ground it priori, namely general rules of unity in the A I a synthesis of appearances, whose objective reality, as necessary condi­ tions, can always be shown in experience, indeed in its possibility. But apart from this relation synthetic a priori propositions are entirely im­ possible, since they would then have no third thing, namely a pure ob­ ject,b in which the synthetic unity of their concepts could establish objective reality.
 
 Thus although in synthetic judgments we cognize priori so much a about space in general or about the shapes that the productive imagi­ nation draws in it that we really do not need any experience for this, still this cognition would be nothing at all, but an occupation with a mere figment of the brain, if space were not to be regarded as the condition a Principien reinen Gegenstand; Erdmann suggests keinem Gegenstand, i.e., "no object." b 282 Section III.
 
