Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II ing, intuitable. Alteration is the combination of contradictorily opposed determinations in the existence of one and the same thing. Now how it B 292 is possible that from a given state an opposed state of the same thing should follow not only cannot be made comprehensible by reason with­ out an example, but cannot even be made understandable without intu­ ition, and this intuition is the motion of a point in space, the existence of which in different places (as a sequence of opposed determinations) first makes alteration intuitable to us; for in order subsequently to make even inner alterations thinkable, we must be able to grasp time, as the form of inner sense, figuratively through a line, and grasp the inner al­ teration through the drawing of this line (motion), and thus grasp the successive existencea of ourself in different states through outer intu­ ition; the real ground of which is that all alteration presupposes some­ thing that persists in intuition, even in order merely to be perceived as alteration, but there is no persistent intuition to be found in inner sense. -Finally, the possibility of the category of community is not to be comprehended at all through mere reason, and thus it is not possi­ ble to have insight into the objective reality of this concept without intuition, and indeed outer intuition in space. For how would one con­ ceiveb the possibility that if several substances exist, the existence' of the one can follow reciprocally from the existence of the other (as an ef­ fect), and thus that because there is something in the former, there must B 293 on that account also be something in the other that cannot be under­ stood from the existence of the latter alone? For this is requisite for community, but is not even comprehensible among things each of which is entirely isolated from the others through its subsistence.
 
 Hence Leibniz, who ascribed a community to the substances of the world only as conceived by the understanding alone, needed a divinity for mediation; for from their existence alone this community rightly seemed to him incomprehensible.92 But we can readily grasp the possi­ bility of community (of substances as appearances) if we represent them in space, thus in outer intuition. For this already contains in itself pri­ a ori formal outer relations as conditions of the possibility of the real (in effect and countereffect, thus in community). -It can just as easily be established that the possibility of things as magnitudes, and thus the objective reality of the category of magnitude, can also be exhibited only in outer intuition, and that by means of that alone can it subse­ quently also be applied to inner sense. But in order to avoid being long­ winded I must leave the examples of this to the reader's further thought.
 
 This entire remark is of great importance, not only in order to conExistenz a denken b , Existenz, used throughout this sentence.
 
 336 Section III.
 
