Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III siveness that is to be observed in the world, as a thoroughly contingent arrangement, to the existence of a cause proportioned to it. The con­ cept of this cause, however, has to give us something quite determinate to cognize about it, and thus it cannot be anything other than that of a being that possesses all power, wisdom, etc., in a word, all perfection, as A628/B656 an all-sufficient being. For the predicates very great, or "astonishing" or "immeasurable power" and "excellence" do not give any determinate concept at all, and really say nothing about what the thing in itself is, but are rather only relative representations, through which the observer (of the world) compares the magnitude of the object with himself and his power to grasp it, and they turn out to be terms of equally high praise whether one increases the magnitude of the object or makes the observing subject smaller in relation to it. Where it is a question of the magnitude (perfection) of a thing in general, there is no determinate concept except that which comprehends the whole of possible perfec­ tion, and only the All (ornnitudo) of reality is thoroughly determinate in its concept.
 
 Now I will not hope that anyone presumes to have insight into the relation of the magnitude of the world as he has observed it (in its scope as well as its content) to omnipotence, or the world-order to highest wisdom, or the unity of the world to the absolute unity of its author, etc.
 
 Thus physico-theology cannot give any determinate concept of the supreme cause of the world, and hence it cannot be sufficient for a prin­ ciplea of theology, which is supposed to constitute in turn the founda­ tion of religion.
 
 The step to absolute totality is utterly impossible on the empirical path. But it is nevertheless made in the physico-theological proof. SO A629/ B 657 what means are employed to get across such a wide gulf?
 
 Mter one has gotten as far as admiring the magnitude of the wisdom, power, etc. of the world's author, and cannot get any farther, then one suddenly leaves this argument carried out on empirical grounds of proof and goes back to the contingency that was inferred right at the beginning from the world's order and purposiveness. Now one pro­ ceeds from this contingency alone, solely through transcendental con­ cepts, to the existence of something absolutely necessary, and then from the concept of the absolute necessity of the first cause to its thoroughly determinate or determining concept, namely that of an all-encompass­ ing reality. Thus the physico-theological proof, stymied in its under­ taking, suddenly jumps over to the cosmological proof, and since this is only a concealed ontological proof, it really carries through its aim merely through pure reason, even though at the beginning this denied a Princip 582 Section VII.
 
