Hence there is no doubt that up to now the procedure of metaphysics has been a mere groping, and what is the worst, a groping among mere concepts.
 
 Now why is it that here the secure path of science still could not be found? Is it perhaps impossible? Why then has nature afflicted our rea­ son with the restless striving for such a path, as if it were one of rea­ son's most important occupations? Still more, how little cause have we to place trust in our reason if in one of the most important parts of our desire for knowledge it does not merely forsake us but even entices us with delusions and in the end betrays us! Or if the path has merely eluded us so far, what indications may we use that might lead us to hope that in renewed attempts we will be luckier than those who have gone before us?
 
 I should think that the examples of mathematics and natural science, Bxvi which have become what they now are through a revolution brought about all at once, were remarkable enough that we might reflect on the essential element in the change in the ways of thinking that has been so advantageous to them, and, at least as an experiment, imitate it insofar as their analogy with metaphysics, as rational cognition, might permit.
 
 Up to now it has been assumed that all our cognition must conform to the objects; but all attempts to find out something about them a priori through concepts that would extend our cognition have, on this pre­ supposition, come to nothing. Hence let us once try whether we do not get farther with the problems of metaphysics by assuming that the ob­ jectsa must conform to our cognition, which would agree better with the requested possibility of an a priori cognition of them, which is to estab­ lish something about objectsb before they are given to us. This would be just like the first thoughts of Copernicus,,6 who, when he did not make good progress in the explanation of the celestial motions if he as­ sumed that the entire celestial host revolves around the observer, tried to see if he might not have greater success if he made the observer re­ volve and left the stars at rest. Now in metaphysics we can try in a simBxvii ilar way regarding the intuition of objects. If intuition has to conform to the constitution of the objects, then I do not see how we can know anything of them a priori; but if the object (as an objectC of the senses) conforms to the constitution of our faculty of intuition, then I can very well represent this possibility to myself. Yet because I cannot stop with these intuitions, if they are to become cognitions, but must refer them as representations to something as their object and determine this oba Objecte Objecte b , Object 110 to the second edition <B> ject through them, I can assume either that the concepts through which I bring about this determination also conform to the objects, and then I am once again in the same difficulty about how I could know anything about them priori, or else I assume that the objects, or what is the same a thing, the experience in which alone they can be cognized (as given objects) conforms to those concepts, in which case I immediately see an easier way out of the difficulty, since experience itself is a kind of cognition requiring the understanding, whose rule I have to presuppose in myself before any object is given to me, hence priori, which rule is exa pressed in concepts priori, to which all objects of experience must a therefore necessarily conform, and with which they must agree.
 
