2. Agreement and opposition. If reality is represented only through the pure understanding (realitas noumenon), then no opposition be­ tween realities can be thought, i.e., a relation such that when they are bound together in one subject they cancel out their consequences, as in A26S 3 - 3 a.a,IOI Realitiesb in appearance (realitas phaenomenon), on the = contrary, can certainly be in opposition with each other and, united in B 321 the same subject, one can partly or wholly destroy the consequence of the other, like two moving forces in the same straight line that either push or pull a point in opposed directions, or also like an enjoyment that balances the scale against a pain.
 
 c 3.d The inner and the outer. In an object of the pure understanding only that is internal that has no relation e (as far as the existence is concerned) to anything that is different from it. The inner determinations of a substantia phaenomenonf in space, on the contrary, are nothing but relations, and it is itself entirely a sum total of mere relations.g,b We know substance in space only through forces that are efficacious in it, whether in drawing others to it (attraction) or in preventing penetration of it (repulsion and impenetrability); we are not acquainted with other properties constituting the concept of the substance that appears in space and which we call matter. As object of the pure understanding, i on the contrary, every substance must have inner determinations and forces that pertain to its inner reality. Yet what can I think of as inner accidents except for those which my inner sense offers me? -namely A 266 that which is either itself thinking or which is analogous to one. Thus because he represented them as noumena, taking away in thought every- B 322 thing that might signify outer relation! thus even composition, Leibniz made out of all substances, even the constituents of matter, simple subjects gifted with powers of representation, in a word, monads. I02 4. Matter and form. These are two concepts that ground all other rea Kant's copy of the first edition adds: "for reality is opposed to mere negation = 0." (E CXLV; p. 45; 23=49) Das Reale b C Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "This misunderstanding causes one to place all ill and evil in the world, all vice and pain, in mere negations, and to value reality so highly." (E CXLVI, p. 45; 23=37) d Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Idealism and dualism." (E CXLVII, p. 45) Beziehung , f phenomenal substance Relationen g Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "In space there are solely outer relations, in h time purely inner ones; the absolute is absent." (E CXLVIII, p. 45; 23:37) Object i Relation J 369 Doctrine of Elements.
 
