Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II unknown to me. We, however, have nothing to do with that, but only with the rule of the progress of experience, in which objects, namely ap­ pearances, are given. It is all the same to the outcome whether I say that in the empirical progress in space I could encounter stars that are a hun­ dred times farther from me than the most distant ones I see, or whether I say that perhaps they are there to be encountered in world-space even if no human being has ever perceived them or ever will perceive them; for if they were given as things in themselves, without any reference to possible experience at all, then they would be nothing for me, hence they would not be objects contained in the series of the empirical regress. Only in another relation, when these same appearances are to B 525 be used on behalf of the cosmological idea of an absolute whole and having to do with a question that goes beyond the bounds of possible experience, is it important to distinguish between the ways one might take the reality of objects of sense when thinking them, so as to prevent A497 a deceptive delusion that must inevitably arise if we misinterpret our own concepts of experience.
 
 The Antinomy of Pure Reason Section Seven Critical decision of the cosmological conflict of reason with itself.
 
 The entire antinomy of pure reason rests on this dialectical argument: If the conditioned is given, then the whole series of all conditions for it is also given; now objects of the senses are given as conditioned; conse­ quently, etc. Through this syllogism, whose major premise seems so natural and evident, a corresponding number of cosmological ideas are introduced, in accordance with the difference of the conditions (in the synthesis of appearances), insofar as they constitute a series, which pos­ tulate an absolute totality of these series and thereby put reason into an unavoidable conflict with itself. But before we expose what is deceptive about this sophistical argument, we have to put in place certain of the B 526 concepts occurring in it, by correcting and determining them.
 
 First, the following proposition is clear and undoubtedly certain: If A498 the conditioned is given, then through it a regress in the series of all conditions for it is given to us as a problem;a for the concept of the conditioned already entails that something is related to a condition, and if this condition is once again conditioned, to a more remote condition, and so through all the members of the series. This proposition is there­ fore analytic and beyond any fear of a transcendental criticism. It is a a uns ...lI ufgegeben sei 514 Section VII.
 
