Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II self involved in such contradictions that it is compelled to relinquish its demands in regard to cosmology.
 
 Here a new phenomenon of human reason shows itself, namely a wholly natural antithetic, for which one does not need to ponder or to B434 lay artificial snares, but rather into which reason falls of itself and even unavoidably; and thus it guards reason against the slumber of an imag­ ined conviction, such as a merely one-sided illusion produces, but at the same time leads reason into the temptation either to surrender itself to a skeptical hopelessness or else to assume an attitude of dogmatic stub­ bornness, setting its mind rigidly to certain assertions without giving a fair hearing to the grounds for the opposite. Either alternative is the death of a healthy philosophy, though the former might also be called the euthanasia of pure reason.
 
 Before we allow the divisions and dissensions occasioned by this con­ tradiction in the laws (antinomy) of pure reason to make their entrance, we will offer certain elucidations that can classify and justify the method we will employ in treating our subject matter. I call all transcendental ideas, insofar as they concern absolute totality in the synthesis of appearA408 ances, world-concepts,46 partly because of the unconditioned totality on which the concept of the world-whole also rests even though it is only an idea, and partly because they have to do merely with the synthesis of ap­ pearances, and hence with the empirical, whereas the absolute totality of the synthesis of the condition of all possible things in general will occaB435 sion an ideal ofp ure reason, which is wholly distinct from the world-con­ cept, even though it stands in relation to it. Hence just as the paralogism of pure reason laid the ground for a dialectical psychology, so the antin­ omy of pure reason will put before our eyes the transcendental principles of an alleged pure (rational) cosmology, yet not in order to find it valid and to appropriate it, but rather, as is already indicated by terming it a contradiction of reason, in order to display it in its dazzling but false plausibility as an idea that cannot be made to agree with appearances.
 
 a The Antinomy of Pure Reason First Section The sy s tem of cos m o logical ideas.
 
 Now in order to be able to enumerate these ideas with systematic pre­ cision according to a principle,b we must first note that it is only from the understanding that pure and transcendental concepts can arise, that A409 reason really cannot generate any concept at all, but can at most only free a concept of the understanding from the unavoidable limitations Schein a b Princip 460 Section 1.
 
