Ch. II. Sec. II distinguished from laws of nature, which deal only with that which does happen, on which account the former are also called practical laws.
 
 A803/B83I But whether in these actions, through which it prescribes laws, reason is not itself determined by further influences, and whether that which with respect to sensory impulses is called freedom might not in turn with regard to higher and more remote efficient causes be na足 ture -in the practical sphere this does not concern us, since in the first instance we ask of reason only a precept for conduct; it is rather a merely speculative question, which we can set aside as long as our aim is directed to action or omission.a We thus cognize practical freedom through experience, as one of the natural causes, namely a causality of reason in the determination of the will, whereas transcendental free足 dom requires an independence of this reason itself (with regard to its causality for initiating a series of appearances) from all determining causes of the world of the senses, and to this extent seems to be con足 trary to the law of nature, thus to all possible experience, and so re足 mains a problem. Yet this problem does not belong to reason in its practical use, so in a canon of pure reason we are concerned with only two questions that pertain to the practical interest of pure reason, and with regard to which a canon of its use must be possible, namely: Is there a God? Is there a future life? The question about transcendental freedom concerns merely speculative knowledge, which we can set A804/ B 832 aside as quite indifferent ifw e are concerned with what is practical, and about which there is already sufficient discussion in the Antinomy of Pure Reason.
 
 On the Canon of Pure Reason Second Section On the ideal of the highest good, as a determining ground of the ultimate end of pure reason.
 
 In its speculative use reason led us through the field of experiences, and, since it could never find complete satisfaction for itself there, it led us on from there to speculative ideas, which in the end, however, led us back again to experience, and thus fulfilled its aim in a way that is quite useful but not quite in accord with our expectation. Now yet another experiment remains open to us: namely, whether pure reason is also to be found in practical use, whether in that use it leads us to the ideas that attain the highest ends of pure reason which we have just adduced, and thus whether from the point of view of its practical interest reason may a Thun oder Lassen, the standard eighteenth-century German phrase for behavior subject to moral regulation and evaluation.
 
 676 On the ideal of the highest good not be able to guarantee that which in regard to its speculative interest it entirely refuses to us.
 
