There is thus no canon for its speculative use at all (for this is through and through dialectical); rather all transcendental logic is in this respect nothing but a discipline. Consequently, if there is to be any A 797/ B 825 legitimate use of pure reason at all, in which case there must also be a canon of it, this will concern not the speculative but rather the practical use of reason, which we will therefore now investigate.
 
 26 On the Canon of Pure Reason First Section On the ultimate end of the pure use of our reason.
 
 Reason is driven by a propensity of its nature to go beyond its use in ex足 perience, to venture to the outermost bounds of all cognition by means of mere ideas in a pure use, and to find peace only in the completion of its circle in a self-subsisting systematic whole. Now is this striving grounded merely in its speculative interest, or rather uniquely and solely in its practical interest?
 
 I will set aside the good fortune of reason in a speculative regard, and ask only about those problems the solution of which constitutes its ul足 timate end, whether it may reach this or not, and in respect to which all other ends have merely the value of means. These highest ends must, in accordance with the nature of reason, in turn have unity, in order to ad- A 798/ B 826 vance, in a united manner, that interest of humanity which is subordinated to no higher one.
 
 The final aim to which in the end the speculation of reason in its transcendental use is directed concerns three objects: the freedom of the wilV the immortality of the soul, and the existence of God. With regard to all three the merelyb speculative interest of reason is very small, and with respect to this an exhausting labor of transcendental re足 search, hampered with unceasing hindrances, would be undertaken only with difficulty, since one would not be able to make any use of the discoveries that might be made which would prove its utility in concreto, i.e., in the investigation of nature. The will may well be free, yet this can concern only the intelligible cause of our willing. For, in accordance with an inviolable fundamental maxim without which we could not ex足 ercise any reason in empirical use, we must explain the phenomena of its manifestations, i.e., actions, no differently than all other appearances of nature, namely in accordance with its unalterable laws. Second, we n des Willens. In what follows, Wille will be translated as "will" and Willkiihr as "choice" or "faculty of choice." b Following the second edition, which has das blofJ instead of blofJ das.
 
 673 Doctrine of Method.
 
