Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. II. Appendix of this concept is given, which do not belong to the concept but to the entire sensibility. In the same way, there is no contradiction at all in the concept of a thing if nothing negative is connected with something af­ firmative, and merely affirmative concepts cannot, in combination, ef­ fect any cancellation. Yet in the sensible intuition in which reality (e.g., motion) is given, there are conditions (opposed directions), from which one had abstracted in the concept of motion in general, that make pos­ sible a conflict, which is certainly not a logical one, that produces a zero 0 out of that which is entirely positive; and one could not say that all = reality is in agreement just because no conflict a is to be found among its concepts.* According to mere concepts the inner is the substratum of all relation or outer determinations. If, therefore, I abstract from all con­ ditions of intuition, and restrict myself solely to the concept of a thing in general, then I can abstract from every outer relation, and yet there must remain a concept of it, that signifies no relation but merely inner determinations. Now it seems as if it follows from this that in every thing (substance) there is something that is absolutely internal and pre­ cedes all outer determinations, first making them possible, thus that this substratum is something that contains no more outer relations in itself, consequently that it is simple (for corporeal things are still always only relations, at least of the parts outside one another); and since we are not acquainted with any absolutely inner determinations except through our inner sense, this substratum would be not only simple, but also (ac­ cording to the analogy with our inner sense) determined through rep­ resentations, i.e., all things would really be monads, or simple beings endowed with representations. "3 And this would all be correct, were it not that something more than the concept of a thing in general belongs to the conditions under which alone objects of outer intuition can be given to us, and from which the pure concept abstracts. For these show that a persistent appearance in space (impenetrable extension) contains mere relations and nothing absolutely internal, and nevertheless can be the primary substratum of all outer perception. Through mere con­ cepts, of course, I cannot think of something external without anything * If one wanted to make use of the usual escape here, that at least realitates noumena cannot act in opposition to each other, one would still have to intro­ B 339 duce an example of such pure and non-sensible reality in order to understand whether such a reality represents something or nothing at all. But no example can be derived from anywhere except experience, which never offers more than phaenomena, and thus this proposition signifies nothing more than that a concept that contains only affirmations does not contain anything negative: a proposition that we have never doubted.
 
 Widerstreit a 378 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection inner, for the very reason that relational concepts absolutely presuppose given things and are not possible without these.
 
