On the Ground of the Distinction <A> sense, and is entirely empty of content, even though it may still contain the logical function for making a concept out of whatever sort of data there are. Now the object cannot be given to a concept otherwise than in intuition, and, even if a pure intuitiona is possible a priori prior to the object, then even this can acquire its object, thus its objective validity, only through empirical intuition, of which it is the mere form. Thus all concepts and with them all principles, however a priori they may be, are nevertheless related to empirical intuitions, i.e., to data for possible ex­ perience. Without this they have no objective validity at all, but are rather a mere play, whether it be with representations of the imagination or of the understanding. One need only take as an example the concepts of mathematics, and first, indeed, in their pure intuitions. B 299 Space has three dimensions, between two points there can be only one straight line, etc. Although all these principles, and the representation of the object with which this science occupies itself, are generated in the A 240 mind completely a priori, they would still not signify anything at all if we could not always exhibit their significance in appearances (empirical objects). Hence it is also requisite for one to make an abstract concept sensible, i.e., display the objectb that corresponds to it in intuition, since without this the concept would remain (as one says) without sense, i.e., without significance. Mathematics fulfills this requirement by means of the construction of the figure,c which is an appearance present to the senses (even though brought about a priori). In the same science, the concept of magnitude seeks its standing and sense in number, but seeks this in turn in the fingers, in the beads of an abacus, or in strokes and points that are placed before the eyes. The concept is always generated a priori, together with the synthetic principles or formulas from such concepts; but their use and relation to supposed objects can in the end be sought nowhere but in experience, the possibility of which (as far as its form is concerned) is contained in them a priori.
 
 That this is also the case with all categories, however, and the princi- B 300 pIes spun out from them,d is also obvious from this: That we cannot even define a single one of them without immediately descending to conditions of sensibility, thus to the form of the appearances, to which, as their sole objects, they must consequently be limited, since, if one re- A 241 moves this condition, all significance, i.e., relation to the object" disappears, and one cannot grasp through an example what sort of thing is a Altered in Kant's copy of the first edition to: "even if a pure sensible intuition" (E CXVIII, p. 41; 23'47).
 
 b Object , Gestalt In his copy of the first edition, Kant adds the remark: "We cannot explain their possi­ d bility" (E CXIX, p. 41; 23:47).
 
 , Object 341 Doctrine of Elements.
 
