Critical decision of the cosmological conflict logical postulate of reason to follow that connection of a concept with its conditions through the understanding, and to continue it as far as possible, which already attaches to the concept itself.
 
 Further: If the conditioned as well as its condition are things in them­ selves, then when the first is given not only is the regress to the second given as a problem, but the latter is thereby really already given along with it; and, because this holds for all members of the series, then the complete series of conditions, and hence the unconditioned is thereby simultaneously given, or rather it is presupposed by the fact that the con­ ditioned, which is possible only through that series, is given. Here the synthesis of the conditioned with its conditions is a synthesis of the mere understanding, which represents things as they are without paying attention to whether and how we might achieve acquaintance a with them. B 527 On the contrary, if I am dealing with appearances, which as mere repre­ sentations are not given at all if! do not achieve acquaintance with them (i.e. to them themselves, for they are nothing except empirical cogni- A499 tions),b then I cannot say with the same meaningC that if the conditioned is given, then all the conditions (as appearances) for it are also given; and hence I can by no means infer the absolute totality of the series of these conditions. For the appearances, in their apprehension, are themselves nothing other than an empirical synthesis (in space and time) and thus are given only in this synthesis. Now it does not follow at all that if the conditioned (in appearance) is given, then the synthesis constituting its empirical condition is thereby also given too and presupposed; on the contrary, this synthesis takes place for the first time in the regress, and never without it. But in such a case one can very well say that a regress to the conditions, i.e., a continued empirical synthesis on this side is de­ manded or given as a problem,d and that there could not fail to be conditions given through this regressY From this it is clear that the major premise of the cosmological syllo­ gism takes the conditioned in the transcendental signification of a pure category, while the minor premise takes it in the empirical signification of a concept of the understanding applied to mere appearances; consequently there is present in it that dialectical deception that is called a B 528 sophisma figurae dictionis.e This deception is, however, not artificial, but A500 an entirely natural mistake of common reason. For through common reason, when something is given as conditioned, we presuppose (in the major premise) the conditions and their series as it were sight unseen, a Kenntnis Kenntnisse b , Bedeutung aufgegeben d , "sophism of a figure of speech," or fallacy of equivocation 515 Doctrine of Elements.
 
