But even if we could say anything synthetically about things in themselves through the pure understanding (which is nevertheless im­ possible), this still could not be related to appearances at all, which do not represent things in themselves. In this latter case, therefore, I will always have to compare my concepts in transcendental reflection only under the conditions of sensibility, and thus space and time will not be determinations of things in themselves, but of appearances; what the things may be in themselves I do not know, and also do not need to A277 know, since a thing can never come before me except in appearance. B333 I proceed in the same way with the other concepts of reflection.
 
 Matter is substantia phaenomenon. a What pertains to it internally I seek in all parts of space that it occupies and in all effects that it carries out, and which can certainly always be only appearances of outer sense. I therefore have nothing absolutely but only comparatively internal, which itself in turn consists of outer relations. Yet the absolutely inter­ nal in matter, according to pure understanding, is a mere fancy, for it is nowhere an object for the pure understanding; the transcendental ob­ ject,b however, which might be the ground of this appearance that we call matter, is a mere something, about which we would not understand what it is even if someone could tell us. For we cannot understand any­ thing except that which has something corresponding to our words in intuition. If the complaints "That we have no insight into the inner in things"!II are to mean that we do not understand through pure rea­ son what the things that appear to us might be in themselves, then they are entirely improper and irrational; for they would have us be able to cognize things, thus intuit them, even without senses, consequently they would have it that we have a faculty of cognition entirely distinct from the human not merely in degree but even in intuition and kind, A278 and thus that we ought to be not humans but beings that we cannot B334 even say are possible, let alone how they are constituted. Observation and analysis of the appearances penetrate into what is inner in nature, and one cannot know how far this will go in time. Those transcenden­ tal questions, however, that go beyond nature, we will never be able to answer, even if all of nature is revealed to us, sinceC it is never given to a phenomenal substance b Object , Following the second edition, reading da instead of undo In his copy of the first edition, Kant substituted weil for und (E, p. 45)· 375 Doctrine of Elements.
 
