Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II nate magnitude of time is finally generated.a Since the mere intuition in all appearances is either space or time, every appearance as intuition is B 204 an extensive magnitude, as it can only be cognized through successive synthesis (from part to part) in apprehension. All appearances are ac­ cordingly already intuited as aggregates (multitudes of antecedently given parts),b which is not the case with every kind of magnitude, but rather only with those that are represented and apprehended by us as extensive.' On this successive synthesis of the productive imagination, in the generation of shapes, is grounded the mathematics of extension (geom­ etry) with its axioms, which express the conditions of sensible intuition a priori, under which alone the schema of a pure concept of outer ap­ pearance can come about; e.g., between two points only one straight line is possible; two straight lines do not enclose a space, etc. These are the axioms that properly concern only magnitudes (quanta) as such.
 
 But concerning magnitude (quantitas), i.e., the answer to the ques­ tion "How big is something?", although various of these propositions AI64 are synthetic and immediately certain (indemonstrabilia), there are nev­ ertheless no axioms in the proper sense. For that equals added to or subtracted from equals give an equal are analytic propositions, since I B 205 am immediately conscious of the identity of one generation of a mag­ nitude with the other; but axioms ought to be synthetic a priori propo­ sitions. The self-evident propositions of numerical relation,d on the contrary, are to be sure, synthetic, but not general, like those of geom­ etry, and for that reason also cannot be called axioms, but could rather be named numerical formulas. That 7 + 5 12 is not an analytic propo­ = sition. For I do not think the number 12 either in the representation of 7 nor in that of 5 nor in the representation of the combinatione of the two (that I ought to think this in the addition of the two is not here at issue; in the case of an analytic proposition the question is only a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Hence the concept of an extensive magni­ tude does not pertain merely to that wherein there is extension, i.e., merely to our in­ tuition. Satisfaction has extensive magnitude in accordance with the length of the time that is agreeably spent, although it also has magnitude intensive [intensively] according to the degree of this agreeableness." (E LXVIII, p. 30; 23:29) These words are stricken in Kant's copy of the first edition (E LXIX, p. 30; 23:46).
 
 b , Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "We can never take up a manifold as such in perception without doing so in space and time. But since we do not intuit these for themselves, we must take up the homogeneous manifold in general in accordance with concepts of magnitude." (E LXX, p. 30; 23:29) Zahlverhdltnis d , Zusammensetzung 288 Section III.
 
