Pan I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> appearance through experience, but this outer experience is itself first possible only through this representation.a A24 2)b Space is a necessary representation, priori, which is the ground of a all outer intuitions.8 One can never represent that there is no space, al­ though one can very well think that there are no objects to be encoun­ B 39 tered in it.9 It is therefore to be regarded as the condition of the possi­ bility of appearances, not as a determination dependent on them, and is an priori representation that necessarily grounds outer appearances.c a 3) The apodictic certainty of all geometrical principles and the possi­ bility of their priori construction are grounded in this priori necessity.
 
 a a For if this representation of space were a concept acquired posteriori, a which was drawn out of general outer experience, the first principles of mathematical determination would be nothing but perceptions. They would therefore have all the contingency of perception, and it would not even be necessary that only one straight line lie between two points, but experience would merely always teach that. What is borrowed from ex­ perience always has only comparative universality, namely through in­ duction. One would therefore only be able to say that as far as has been observed to date, no space has been found that has more than three dimensions.d , 10 4) Space is not a discursive or, as is said, general concept of relations 1\.25 of things in general, but a pure intuition. For, first, one can only repre­ sent a single space, and if one speaks of many spaces, one understands by that only parts of one and the same unique space. II And these parts cannot as it were precede the single all-encompassing space as its com­ ponents (from which its composition would be possible), but rather are only thought in it. It is essentially single; the manifold in it, thus also a The following note is added at the bottom of this page in Kant's copy: "[1 .] Space is not a concept, but an intuition.
 
 2. —not an empirical intuition, for everything empirical one can .. .
 
 3. It is an priori intuition ...
 
 a 4-Space is the subjective form ..." (E XIII, p. r6; 23:22) Added in Kant's copy: b "Space is not a concept of external relations, as Leibniz supposed, but that which grounds the possibility of external relations.
 
 "The necessity of the relation of our propositions to something external is a proof of the real connection' in which we stand with external things; against idealism." (E XIV; p. r6; 23:22) , Inserted in Kant's copy: "Space is not a concept derived from experience, but a ground of possible outer ex­ perience. I must have a concept of space if ..." (E XV; p. r 6; 23:22) "Proof oft he ideality ofs pace from the synthetic priori proposition. of. and of. [sic] a This is no hypothesis ...[ sic)" (E XVI, p. r6; 23:22) This paragraph is deleted in the second edition, and replaced by §3, "The Transcenden­ d tal Exposition of the Concept of Space" (B 40 -r).
 
 , Verbindung 158 Section I.
 
