Systematic representation of all synthetic principles to its form, i.e., the relation of the manifold empirical consciousness in time. Now in the original apperception all of this manifold, so far as its temporal relations are concerned, is to be unified; for this is what its transcendental unity, under which everything stands that is to belong to my (i.e., my united)a cognition, and thus can become an object for me, asserts a priori. This synthetic unity in the temporal relation of all per­ ceptions, which is detennined priori, is thus the law that all empira ical time-determinations must stand under rules of general time­ determination, and the analogies of experience, with which we will now A 178 deal, must be rules of this sort.
 
 These principles have the peculiarity that they do not concern the appearances and the synthesis of their empirical intuition, but merely their existence and their relation to one another with regard to this their existence. Now the way in which something is apprehended in ap- B 221 pearance can be determined a priori so that the rule of its synthesis at the same time yields this intuition a priori in every empirical example, i.e., can bring the former about from the latter. Yet the existence of ap­ pearances cannot be cognized a priori, and even if we could succeed on this path in inferring to some existence or other, we still would not be able to cognize it determinately, i.e., be able to anticipate that through which its empirical intuition is differentiated from others.
 
 The preceding two principles, which I named the mathematical ones in consideration of the fact that they justified applying mathematics to appearances, pertained to appearances with regard to their mere possi­ bility, and taught how both their intuition and the real in their percep­ tion could be generated in accordance with rules of a mathematical syn­ thesis, hence how in both cases numerical magnitudes and, with them, the determination of the appearance as magnitude, could be used. E.g., I would be able to compose and determine a priori, i.e., construct the de- AI79 gree of the sensation of sunlight out of about 200,000 illuminations from the moon. Thus we can call the former principles constitutive.
 
 Things must be entirely different with those principles that are to bring the existence of appearances under rules a pr·iori. For, since this existence cannot be constructed, these principles can concern only the re- B222 lationb of existence, and can yield nothing but merely regulative principles.c Here therefore neither axioms nor intuitions are to be thought of; rather, if a perception is given to us in a temporal relation to others (even though indeterminate), it cannot be said a priori which and how great this other perception is, but only how it is necessarily combined with the first, as regards its existence, in this modus of time. In philosophy analogies signify something very different from what they represent in matheeinigen a Verhdltnis b , Principien 297 Doctrine of Elements.
 
