Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III A 569/ B 597 Without venturing to climb as high as that, however, we have to admit that human reason contains not only ideas but also ideals, which do not, to be sure, have a creative power like the Platonic idea, but still have practical power (as regulative principles)a grounding the possibil­ ity of the perfection of certain actions. Moral concepts are not entirely pure concepts of reason, because they are grounded on something em­ pirical (pleasure or displeasure). But in regard to the principle b through which reason places limits on a freedom which is in itself lawless, they can nevertheless serve quite well (if one attends merely to their form) as examples of pure concepts of reason. Virtue, and with it human wisdom in its entire purity, are ideas. But the sage (of the Stoics) is an ideal, i.e., a human being who exists merely in thoughts, but who is fully congru­ ent with the idea of wisdom. Thus just as the idea gives the rule, so the ideal in such a case serves as the original imageC for the thoroughgo­ ing determination of the copy; and we have in us no other standard for our actions than the conduct of this divine human being, with which we can compare ourselves, judgingd ourselves and thereby improving our­ selves, even though we can never reach the standard. These ideals, even though one may never concede them objective reality (existence), are nevertheless not to be regarded as mere figments of the brain; rather, they provide an indispensable standard for reason, which needs the conA 570/ B 598 cept of that which is entirely complete in its kind, in order to assess and measure the degree and the defects of what is incomplete. But to try to realize the ideal in an example, i.e., in appearance, such as that of the sage in a novel, is not feasible, and even has about it something non­ sensical and not very edifying, since the natural limits which constantly impair the completeness in the idea render impossible every illusion in such an attempt, and thereby render even what is good in the idea sus­ pect by making it similar to a mere fiction.
 
 That is how it is with the ideal of reason, which always rests on deter­ minate concepts and must serve as a rule and an original image, whether for following or for judging. It is entirely otherwise with the creatures of imagination, of which no one can give an explanation or an intelligible concept; they are, as it were, monograms, individual traits, though not determined through any assignable rule, constituting more a wavering sketch, as it were, which mediates between various appearances, than a determinate image, such as what painters and physiognomists say they have in their heads, and is supposed to be an incommunicable silhouette of their products or even of their critical judgments. These images can, a Principien Princip b , Urbilde beurtheilen d 552 Section II.
 
