We will call this formal and pure condition of the sensibility, to which the use of the concept of the understanding is restricted, the schema of this concept of the understanding, and we will call the procedure of the understanding with these schemata the schematism of the pure understanding.
 
 The schema is in itself always only a product of the imagination; but since the synthesis of the latter has as its aim no individual intuition but rather only the unity in the determination of sensibility, the schema is to be distinguished from an image. Thus, if I place five points in a row, . . . . . , this is an image of the number five. On the contrary, if I only think a number in general, which could be five or a hundred, this thinking is more the representation of a method for representing a mul­ titude (e.g., a thousand) in accordance with a certain concept than the image itself, which in this case I could survey and compare with the concept only with difficulty. Now this representation of a general procedure of the imagination for providing a concept with its image is what B 180 I call the schema for this concept.
 
 In fact it is not images of objects but schemata that ground our pure sensible conceptsY No image of a triangle would ever be adequate to AI41 the concept of it. For it would not attain the generality of the concept, which makes this valid for all triangles, right or acute, etc., but would always be limited to one part of this sphere. The schema of the triangle can never exist anywhere except in thought, and signifies a rule of the synthesis of the imagination with regard to pure shapes in space. Even less does an object of experience or an image of it ever reach the empirical concept, rather the latter is always related immediately to the schema of the imagination, as a rule for the determination of our intuition in accordance with a certain general concept. The concept of a dog signifies a rule in accordance with which my imagination can specify the shape of a four-footed animal in general, without being re­ stricted to any single particular shape that experience offers me or any possible image that I can exhibit in concreto. This schematism of our un­ derstanding with regard to appearances and their mere form is a hidden art in the depths of the human soul, whose true operations we can di- B 181 vine from nature and lay unveiled before our eyes only with difficulty.
 
 We can say only this much: the image is a product of the empirical faculty of productive imagination, the schema of sensible concepts (such a In the first edition the right-hand heading here changes to "On the Schematism of the Categories." 273 Doctrine of Elements.
 
