Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II the position of each existence, which is impossible, since absolute time is not an object of perception by means of which appearances could be held together; rather the rule of the understanding, through which alone the existence of appearances can acquire synthetic unity in tem­ poral relations, determines the position of each of them in time, thus a priori and validly for each and every time.
 
 A216/B263 By nature (in the empirical sense) we understand the combination of appearances as regards their existence, in accordance with necessary rules, i.e., in accordance with laws. There are therefore certain laws, and indeed priori, which first make a nature possible; the empirical a laws can only obtain and be found by means of experience, and indeed in accord with its original laws, in accordance with which experience it­ self first becomes possible. Our analogies therefore really exhibit the unity of nature in the combination of all appearances under certain ex­ ponents, which express nothing other than the relation of time (insofar as it comprehends all existence in itself) to the unity of apperception, which can only obtain in synthesis in accordance with rules. Thus to­ gether they say: All appearances lie in one nature, and must lie therein, since without this a priori unity no unity of experience, thus also no de­ termination of the objects in it, would be possible.
 
 About the method of proof, however, which we have employed in the case of these transcendental laws of nature, and about its singularity, one remark is to be made, which must be very important as a precept for every other attempt to prove intellectual and at the same time syn­ thetic a priori propositions. If we had wanted to prove these analogies dogmatically, i.e., from concepts -namely, that everything that exists B 264 will only be encountered in that which persists; that every occurrence A 2 I 7 presupposes something in the previous state, which it follows in accor­ dance with a rule; finally, that in the manifold that is simultaneous the states are simultaneous in relationa to each other in accordance with a rule (stand in community) -then all effort would have been entirely in vain. For one cannot get from one object and its existence to the exis­ tence of another or its way of existing through mere concepts of these things, no matter how much one analyzes them. So what is left for us?
 
 The possibility of experience, as a cognition in which in the end all ob­ jects must be able to be given to us if their representation is to have ob­ jective reality for us. In this third thing, now, the essential form of which consists in the synthetic unity of the apperception of all appear­ ances, we found a priori conditions of the thoroughgoing and necessary time-determination of all existence in appearance, without which even empirical time-determination would be impossible, and we found rules of synthetic a priori unity by means of which we could anticipate expea Beziehung 320 Section III.
 
