On Time <A> thing real) only in order to comprehend everything real within themselves. If they adopt the second position (as do some metaphysicians of A 40 nature), and hold space and time to be relations of appearances (next to or successive to one another) that are abstracted from experience though confusedly represented in this abstraction, then they must dis- B 57 pute the validity or at least the apodictic certainty of priori mathemata ical doctrines in regard to real things (e.g., in space), since this certainty does not occur posteriori, and on this view the priori concepts of space a a and time are only creatures of the imagination, the origin of which must really be sought in experience, out of whose abstracted relations imag­ ination has made something that, to be sure, contains what is general in them, but that cannot occur without the restrictions that nature has attached to them.2; The first succeed in opening the field of appearances for mathematical assertions; however, they themselves become very confused through precisely these conditions if the understanding would go beyond this field. The second succeed, to be sure, with respect to the latter, in that the representations of space and time do not stand in their way if they would judge of objects not as appearances but merely in relation to the understanding; but they can neither offer any ground for the possibility of priori mathematical cognitions (since they lack a true a and objectively valid priori intuition), nor can they bring the proposia tions of experience into necessary accord with those assertions. On our A4I theory of the true constitution of these two original forms of sensibility B 58 both difficulties are remedied.a Finally, that the transcendental aesthetic cannot contain more than these two elements, namely space and time, is clear from the fact that all other concepts belonging to sensibility, even that of motion, which unites both elements, presuppose something empiricatz6 For this pre­ supposes the perception of something movable. In space considered in itself there is nothing movable; hence the movable must be something that is found in space only through experience, thus an empirical datum. In the same way the transcendental aesthetic cannot count the concept of alteration among its priori data; for time itself does not a alter, but only something that is within time. For this there is required the perception of some existence and the succession of its determina­ tions, thus experience.b a Inserted in Kant's copy: "Leibniz's system of space and time was to transform both into intellectual but confused concepts. But from this the possibility of a priori cognition cannot be understood, for in that case both must precede." (E XXX, p. 20; 23:24) Inserted in Kant's copy: "Conclusion: That space and time of course have objective re­ b ality, but not for what pertains to things outside of their relation [Relation I to our fac­ ulty of cognition, but rather only in relation to it, and thus to the form of sensibility, hence solely as appearances." (E XXXI, p. 2I; 23:24) 167 Doctrine of Elements.
 
