On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> as these are never objects of outer intuition, yet that same Something that grounds outer appearances and affects our sense so that it receives the representations of space, matter, shape, etc. -this Something, considered as noumenon (or better, as transcendental object) could also at the same time be the subject of thoughts, even though we receive no intuition of representations, volitions, etc. in the way we are affected through outer sense, but rather receive merely intuitions of space and its determinations. But this Something is not extended, not impenetrable, not composite, because these predicates pertain only to sensibility and its intuition, insofar as we are affected by such objects a (otherwise unknown to us). These expressions, however, do not give us cognition of what kind of object it is, but only that, since it is considered in itself without relation to outer sense, it is such that these predicates of outer appearances cannot be applied to it. Yet the predicates of inner sense, A359 representation and thought, do not contradict it. Accordingly, even through the conceded simplicity of its nature the human soul is not at all sufficiently distinguished from matter in regard to its substratum, if one considers matter (as one should) merely as appearance.
 
 If matter were a thing in itself, then as a composite being it would be completely distinguished from the soul as a simple being. But it is merely an outer appearance, whose substratum is not cognized through any specifiable predicates; hence I can well assume about this substra足 tum that in itself it is simple, even though in the way it affects our outer senses it produces in us the intuition of something extended and hence composite; and thus I can also assume that in the substance in itself, to which extension pertains in respect of our outer sense, thoughts may also be present, which may be represented with consciousness through their own inner sense. In such a way the very same thing that is called a body in one relation would at the same time be a thinking being in an足 other, whose thoughts, of course, we could not intuit, but only their signs in appearance. Thereby the expression that only souls (as a par足 ticular species of substances) think would be dropped; and instead it would be said, as usual, that human beings think, i.e., that the same A360 being that as outer appearance is extended is inwardly (in itself) a subject, which is not composite, but is simple and thinks.
 
 But without allowing such hypotheses, one can remark generally that if by a "soul" I understand a thinking being in itself, then it is already in itself an unsuitable question to ask whether or not it is of the same species as matter (which is not a thing in itself at all, but only a species of representations in us); for it is already self-evident that a thing in it足 self is of another nature than the determinations that merely constitute its state.
 
 a Objecte 421 Doctrine of Elements.
 
