On the pure concepts of the understanding of the understanding, indeed even the form of a system of them in the B I IO human understanding, consequently that it gives instruction about all the moments, indeed even of their order, of a planned speculative science, as I have elsewhere given proof.* Now here are several of these remarks.
 
 The first is that this table, which contains four classes of concepts of the understanding, can first be split into two divisions, the first of which is concerned with objects of intuition (pure as well as empirical), the second of which, however, is directed at the existence of these objects (either in relation to each other or to the understanding).
 
 I will call the first class the mathematical categories, the second, the dynamical ones. As one sees, the first class has no correlates, which are to be met with only in the second class. Yet this difference must have a ground in the nature of the understanding.
 
 Second remark: that each class always has the same number of cat­ egories, namely three, which calls for reflection, since otherwise all a priori division by means of concepts must be a dichotomy. But here the third category always arises from the combination of the first two in its class.
 
 Thus allness (totality) is nothing other than plurality considered as a B I I I unity, limitation is nothing other than reality combined with negation, community is the causality of a substance in the reciprocal determination of others, finally necessity is nothing other than the existence that is given by possibility itself. But one should not think that the third category is therefore a merely derivative one and not an ancestral concept of pure understanding. For the combination of the first and second in order to bring forth the third concept requires a special act of the un­ derstanding, which is not identical with that act performed in the first and second. Thus the concept of a number (which belongs to the category of allness) is not always possible wherever the concepts of multitude and of unity are (e.g., in the representation of the infinite); or influence, i.e., how one substance can be the cause of something in another substance, is not to be understood immediately by combining the concept of a cause and that of a substance. From this it is clear that a special act of the understanding is requisite for this; and likewise in the other cases.
 
 Third remark: The agreement of a single category, namely that of community, which is to be found under the third title, with the form of a disjunctive judgment, which is what corresponds to it in the table B I 12 of logical functions, is not as obvious as in the other cases.
 
 In order to be assured of this agreement one must note that in all dis­ junctive judgments the sphere (the multitude of everything that is con* Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science. B I IO 215 Doctrine of Elements.
 
