Ch. r. Sec. III since the contingency in the individuaP is nonetheless subjected to a rule in the whole; but with regard to each individualb it certainly seems questionable to expect such a powerful effect from such inconsequen­ tial causes. Against this, however, you could propose a transcendental A 780/ B 808 hypothesis: that all life is really only intelligible, not subject to tempo­ ral alterations at all, and has neither begun at birth nor will be ended through death;' that this life is nothing but a mere appearance, i.e., a sensible representation of the purely spiritual life, and the entire world of the senses is a mere image, which hovers before our present kind of cognition and, like a dream, has no objective reality in itself; that if we could intuit the things and ourselves as they are we would see ourselves in a world of spiritual natures with which our only true community had not begun with birth nor would not cease with bodily death (as mere appearances), etc.
 
 Now although we do not know or seriously assert the least thing about all of this which we have here pleaded against the attack, and it is all not even an idea of reason but merely a concept thought up for self( defense, nevertheless we proceed quite rationally here, showing the op­ ponent who thinks he has exhausted all of the possibilities by falsely representing the lack of their empirical conditions as a proof of the complete impossibility of that which is believed by us, that he can span the entire field of possible things in themselves through mere laws of experience just as little as we can acquire anything for our reason in a well-grounded manner outside of experience. He who turns such hypoA 78 I / B 809 thet ical countermeasures against the pretensions of his rashly negative opponent must not be considered to hold them as his own genuine opinions. He abandons them as soon as he has finished off the dogmatic self-conceit of his opponent. For as modest and as moderate as it may be for someone merely to refuse and deny the assertions of another, as soon as he would make these objections valid as proof of the opposite his claim would be no less proud and conceited than if he had seized hold of the affirmative party and its assertion.
 
 Thus one sees that in the speculative use of reason hypotheses have no validity as opinions in themselves, but only relative to opposed tran­ scendent pretensions. For the extension of the principlesd of possible experience to the possibility of things in general is just as transcendent as the assertion of the objective reality of such concepts, which can never find their objects anywhere but outside the boundary of all pos­ sible experience. What pure reason judges assertorically must be necesa im Einzeln b jeden Individuum , Following Erdmann, using a semicolon instead of Kant's period here.
 
 d Principien 664 The discipline of pure reason in proofs sary (like everything cognized by reason), or it is nothing at all.
 
