Ch. 1. Sec. I that ground it as if it were unnecessary for it frequently to look back and consider whether there might not be errors in the progress of its in­ A 736/B 764 ferences to be discovered that were overlooked in its principles" and that make it necessary either to determine them further or else to alter them entirely.
 
 I divide all apodictic propositions (whether they are demonstrable or immediately certain) into dogmata and mathemata. A direct synthetic proposition from concepts is a dogma; such a proposition through con­ struction of concepts, on the contrary, is a mathema. Analytic judg­ ments do not really teach us anything moreb about the object than what the concept that we have of it already contains in itself, since they do not expand cognition beyond the concept of the subject, but only elu­ cidate this concept. They cannot therefore properly be called dogmas (a word which one could perhaps translate as theorems).c But in ac­ cordance with ordinary usage, of the two types of synthetic priori a propositions only those belonging to philosophical cognition carry this name, and one would hardly call the propositions of arithmetic or geometry "dogmata." This usage thus confirms the explanation we have given that only judgments from concepts, and not those from the con­ struction of concepts, can be called dogmatic.
 
 Now all of pure reason in its merely speculative use contains not a single direct synthetic judgment from concepts. For through ideas, as we have shown, it is not capable of any synthetic judgments that would have objective validity; through concepts of the understanding, howA 737/ B 765 ever, it certainly erects secure principles, but not directly from con­ cepts, but rather always only indirectly through the relation of these concepts to something entirely contingent, namely possible experi­ ence; since if this (something as object of possible experience) is pre­ supposed, then they are of course apodictically certain, but in them­ selves they cannot even be cognized priori (directly) at all. Thus no a one can have fundamental insight into the proposition "Everything that happens has its cause" from these given concepts alone. Hence it is not a dogma, although from another point of view, namely that of the sole field of its possible use, i.e., experience, it can very well be proved apo­ dictically. But although it must be proved, it is called a principle and not a theoremd because it has the special property that it first makes possible its ground of proof, namely experience, and must always be presupposed in this.
 
 Now if in the content of the speculative use of pure reason there are a Principien Emphasized in the first edition.
 
 b , Lehrspriiche d Grundsatz und nicht Lehrsatz 642 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use no dogmata at all, then any dogmatic method, whether it is borrowed from the mathematicians or is of some special kind, is inappropriate per se.
 
