"F Changed from an ontological to an epistemological key, this argument would become the basis of the "Refutation of Idealism" in the second edition of the Critique of Pure Reason.
 
 So Kant's first piece of philosophy already contained some of Kant's most characteristic criticisms of his predecessors as well as some of the substantive conclusions of his mature work. What was still needed was a new philosophical method that could get him beyond his own still shaky arguments for these conclusions to a totally new foundation for them. That would take at least two more decades to discover.
 
 Before leaving the Nova dilucidatio, however, we should also mention several points at which Kant still agreed with his predecessors, above all Leibniz, and that would only subsequently come in for serious criti­ cism. The first point concerns Kant's early treatment of the freedom of the will, to which he devoted an extensive dialogue within the Nova dilucidatioY At this stage, Kant recognized only the two traditional al­ ternatives of determinism, according to which any event, including a human action, is entirely determined by an antecedent sequence of events, which in the case of a human action may go all the way back to earlier involuntary events in the agent's life or even to events prior to that life, and indeterminism, according to which a free human choice is in no way determined by any prior history. The latter position, which Kant called the "indifference of equilibrium," was represented for him by Crusius,33 and firmly rejected on the ground that this position would undermine any reasonable conception of responsibility. Instead, he opted for Leibniz's position, which was a form of determinism now usu­ ally known as "compatibilism": all events, including human actions, admit of causal explanation, but some human actions are due to an inner rather than an outer cause or principle, and among those some are due to the representation of the chosen action as what would be best for the agent to do. Actions caused in this way, even though they might be nec­ essary and predictable, are still entitled to be called spontaneous, vol­ untary, or free.34 By the time of the Critique of Practical Reason, Kant was to reject this Leibnizian conception of freedom as the "freedom of a turnspit,"35 and it was to be a fundamental task of the Critique of Pure Reason, not yet foreseen in 1755, to make way for a third alternative be­ tween traditional determinism and indeterminism. Kant was to do this by means of his "transcendental idealism," his distinction between the necessary appearance of things to human cognition and how those things, including human agents themselves, might be in themselves: this would allow him to reconcile the Leibnizian and Crusian positions by maintaining the Leibnizian position as the truth about appearances or "phenomena" while holding that the Crusian position might be true about things in themselves or "noumena." The second point concerns another retention of Leibnizian theory.
 
 27 Introduction This is what Kant calls the "Principle of Coexistence," or the thesis that "Finite substances do not, in virtue of their existence alone, stand in a relationship with each other, nor are they linked together by any inter­ action at all, except insofar as the common principle of their existence, namely the divine understanding, maintains them in a state of harmony in their reciprocal relations.
 
