Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III standing than to extend it toward new objects. But here we find some­ thing strange and paradoxical, that the inference from a given existence in general to some absolutely necessary being seems to be both urgent and correct, and yet nevertheless in framing a concept of such a neces­ sity, we have all the conditions of the understanding entirely against us.
 
 In all ages one has talked about the absolutely necessary being, but has taken trouble not so much to understand whether and how one could so much as think of a thing of this kind as rather to prove its ex­ istence. Now a nominal definitiona of this concept is quite easy, namely that it is something whose non-being is impossible; but through this A 593/ B 62 l one becomes no wiser in regard to the conditions that make it neces­ saryb to regard the non-being of a thing as absolutely unthinkable, and that are really what one wants to know, namely whether or not through this concept we are thinking anything at all. For by means of the word unconditional to reject all the conditions that the understanding al­ ways needs in order to regard something as necessary, is far from enough to make intelligible to myself whether through a concept of an unconditionally necessary being I am still thinking something or per­ haps nothing at all.
 
 Still more: one believed one could explain this concept, which was ventured upon merely haphazardly, and that one has finally come to take quite for granted through a multiplicity of examples, so that all fur­ ther demands concerning its intelligibility appeared entirely unneces­ sary. Every proposition of geometry, e.g., "a triangle has three angles," is absolutely necessary, and in this way one talked about an object lying entirely outside the sphere of our understanding as if one understood quite well what one meant by this concept.
 
 All the alleged examples are without exception taken only from judg­ ments, but not from things and their existence.' The unconditioned necessity of judgments, however, is not an absolute necessity of things.d For the absolute necessity of the judgment is only a conditioned necesA594/B622 sity of the thing, e or of the predicate in the judgment. The above proposition does not say that three angles are absolutely necessary, but rather that under the condition that a triangle exists (is given), three ana Namenerklarung h unmiiglich (impossible); the sense, however, seems to require notwendig.
 
 , Kant's note in his copy of the first edition: "'I am': is this an analytic or a synthetic judg­ ment? 'A, an object [Object) in general, exists' is always a synthetic judgment and can­ not be reached a priori: 'I am' is therefore not a cognition of the subject but merely the consciousness of the representation of an object [Object) in general." (E CLXXX, p. 53; 23:42-3) Sachen d , Sache 564 Section IV Impossibility of an ontological proof gles also exist (in it) necessarily.
 
