Grounds of the possibility of experience <A> before my senses were successively added to each other by me, then I would not cognize the generation of the multitudea through this suc­ cessive addition of one to the other, and consequently I would not cog­ nize the number; for this concept consists solely in the consciousness of this unity of the synthesis.
 
 The word "concept" itself could already lead us to this remark. For it is this one consciousness that unifies the manifold that has been suc­ cessively intuited, and then also reproduced, into one representation.
 
 This consciousness may often only be weak, so that we connect it with the generation of the representation only in the effect, but not in the actb itself, i.e., immediately; but regardless of these differences one con- A 104 sciousness must always be found, even if it lacks conspicuous clarity, and without that concepts, and with them cognition of objects, would be entirely impossible.
 
 And here then it is necessary to make understood what is meant by the expression "an object of representations." We have said above that appearances themselves are nothing but sensible representations, which must not be regarded in themselves, in the same way, as objects (outside the power of representation). What does one mean, then, if one speaks of an object corresponding to and therefore also distinct from the cog­ nition? It is easy to see that this object must be thought of only as some­ thing in general X, since outside of our cognition we have nothing = that we could set over against this cognition as corresponding to it.
 
 We find, however, that our thought of the relation of all cognition to its object carries something of necessity with it, since namely the latter is regarded as that which is opposed to our cognitions being determined at pleasure or arbitrarily rather than being determined priori, since in­ a sofar as they are to relate to an object our cognitions must also necessarily agree with each other in relation to it, i.e., they must have that A 105 unity that constitutes the concept of an object.23 It is clear, however, that since we have to do only with the manifold of our representations, and that X which corresponds to them (the ob­ ject), because it should be something distinct from all of our represen­ tations, is nothing for us, the unity that the object makes necessary can be nothing other than the formal unity of the consciousness in the syn­ thesis of the manifold of the representations. Hence we say that we cog­ nize the object if we have effected synthetic unity in the manifold of intuition. But this is impossible if the intuition could not have been pro­ duced through a function of synthesis in accordance with a rule that makes the reproduction of the manifold necessary priori and a concept a in which this manifold is united possible. Thus we think of a triangle as a Menge Actus b 231 Doctrine of Elements.
 
