Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. <A> tions, the understanding thus relates them to a something, as the ob­ ject of sensible intuition: but this something a is to that extent only the transcendental object. b This signifies, however a something X, of = which we know nothing at all nor can know anything in general (in ac­ cordance with the current constitution of our understanding), but is rather something that can serve only as a correlate of the unity of ap­ perception for the unity of the manifold in sensible intuition, by means of which the understanding unifies that in the concept of an object.
 
 This transcendental objectC cannot even be separated from the sensible A251 data, for then nothing would remain through which it would be thought. It is therefore no object of cognition in itself, but only the rep­ resentation of appearances under the concept of an object in general, which is determinable through the manifold of those appearances.d,95 Just for this reason, then, the categories do not represent any special objecte given to the understanding alone, but rather serve only to de­ termine the transcendental object! (the concept of something in gen­ eral) through that which is given in sensibility, in order thereby to cognize appearances empirically under concepts of objects.
 
 But the cause on account of which, not yet satisfied through the sub­ stratum of sensibility, one must add noumena that only the pure under­ standing can think to the phaenomena, rests solely on this. Sensibility and its field, namely that of appearances, are themselves limited by the understanding, in that they do not pertain to things in themselves, but only to the way in which, on account of our subjective constitution, things appear to us. This was the result of the entire Transcendental Aesthetic, and it also follows naturally from the concept of an appear­ ance in general that something must correspond to it which is not in it­ self appearance, for appearance can be nothing for itself and outside of A252 our kind of representation; thus, if there is not to be a constant circle, the word "appearance" must already indicate a relation to something the immediate representation of which is, to be sure, sensible, but which in itself, without this constitution of our sensibility (on which the form of our intuition is grounded), must be something, i.e., an object independent of sensibility.
 
 Now from this arisesg the concept of a noumenon, which, however, is a Altered in Kant's copy of the first edition to "this something as object of an intuition in general" (E CXXXIV, p. 43; 23:48).
 
 Object b , Object Kant's copy of the first edition adds: "only forms of thought, but not cognition" (E d Cxxxv, p. 43; 23:48).
 
 Object , f Object g Kant's copy of the first edition inserts "to be sure" here (E CXXXVI, p. 43; 23:48).
 
 348 Chapter III.
 
