Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Appendix therefore say that logical reflection is a mere comparison, for in its case there is complete abstraction from the cognitive power to which A263 the given representations belong, and they are thus to be treated the B 319 same as far as their seat in the mind is concerned; transcendental re­ flection, however, (which goes to the objects themselves) contains the ground of the possibility of the objective comparison of the representa­ tions to each other, and is therefore very different from the other, since the cognitive power to which the representations belong is not precisely the same. This transcendental reflection is a duty from which no one can escape ifhe would judge anything about things a priori. We will now take it in hand, and will draw from it not a little illumination of the de­ termination of the proper business of the understanding.a 1. Identity and difference.98 If an object is presented to us several times, but always with the same inner determinations (qualitas et quan­ titas), then it is always exactly the same if it counts as an object of pure understanding, not many but only oneb thing (numerica identitas)/ but if it is appearance, then the issue is not the comparison of concepts, but rather, however identical everything may be in regard to that, the dif­ ference of the places of these appearances at the same time is still an ad­ equate ground for the numerical difference of the object (of the senses) itself. Thus, in the case of two drops of water one can comA264 pletely abstract from all inner difference (of quality and quantity), and it is enough that they be intuited in different places at the same time in B 320 order for them to be held to be numerically different. Leibniz99 took the appearances for things in themselves, thus for intelligibilia, i.e., ob­ jects of the pure understanding (although on account of the confusion of their representations he labeled them with the name ofphenomena),d and there his principle of non-discernibility (principium identitatis in­ discernibilium), could surely not be disputed,IOO but since they are ob­ jects of sensibility, and the understanding with regard to them is not of pure but of empirical use, multiplicity and numerical difference are al­ ready given by space itself as the condition of outer appearances. For a part of space, even though it might be completely similar and equal to anotller, is nevertheless outside of it, and is on that account a different part from that which is added to it in order to constitute a larger space; and this must therefore hold of everything that exists simultaneously in a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "These propositions obviously teach that space and time hold only of things, and among them also of ourselves, as appearances; for otherwise they would not yield entirely opposed propositions, like those we assert of things in themselves." (E CXLIV; p. 45; 23:37) In the first edition, "many" (viel) and "only one" (nur Ein) were emphasized.
 
 b , numerical identity Not in roman type.
 
 d , principle of the identity of indiscernibles 368 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection the various positions in space, no matter how similar and equal they might otherwise be.
 
