Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II 2.
 
 <Anticipations of Perception.>a [In the first edition:] The principle, which anticipates all perceptions, as such, runs thus: In all appearances the sensation, and the real, which corresponds to it in the obiect (realitas phaenomenon), has an intensive magnitude, i.e., a degree.
 
 [In the second edition:] <Its principleb is: In all appearances the real, which is an object of the sensation, has intensive magnitude, i.e., a degree.>63 « Proof Perception is empirical consciousness, i.e., one in which there is at the same time sensation. Appearances, as objects of perception, are not pure (merely formal) intuitions, like space and time (for these cannot be perceived in themselves). They therefore also contain in addition to the intuition the materials for some object! in general (through which something existing in space or time is represented), i.e., the real of the sensation, as merely subjective representation, by which one can only be conscious that the subject is affected, and which one relates to an obB 208 ject' in general. Now from the empirical consciousness to the pure con­ sciousness a gradual alteration is possible, where the real in the former entirely disappears, and a merely formal (a priort) consciousness of the manifold in space and time remains;64 thus there is also possible a syn­ thesis of the generation of the magnitude of a sensation from its begin­ ning, the pure intuition 0, to any arbitrary magnitude. Now since == sensation in itself is not an objective representation, and in it neither the intuition of space nor that of time is to be encountered, it has, to be sure, no extensive magnitude, but yet it still has a magnitude (and in­ deed through its apprehension, in which the empirical consciousness can grow in a certain time from nothing to its given measure), thus == ° it has an intensive magnitude, corresponding to which all objects! of perception, insofar as they contain sensation, must be ascribed an in­ tensive magnitude, i.e., a degree of influence on sense.> AI66 One can call all cognition through which I can cognize and determine a priori what belongs to empirical cognition an anticipation, and a In the first edition: "The Anticipations of Perception." Princip b , The heading "Proof" and the following paragraph were added in the second edition.
 
 Objecte d , Object f Objecten 290 Section III.
 
