Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II one wants to know whether the possibility of things extends further than experience can reach.89 I have only mentioned these questions in order not to leave a gap in B 285 what according to common opinion belongs among the concepts of the understanding. In fact, however, absolute possibility (which is valid in every respect) is no mere concept of the understanding, and can in no way be of empirical use, rather it belongs solely to reason, which goes beyond all possible empirical use of the understanding. Hence we have had to satisfy ourselves here with a merely critical remark, but other足 wise left the matter in obscurity pending further treatment later on.
 
 Since I would now conclude this fourth section, and with it at the same time the system of all principles of the pure understanding, I must still provide the reasona why I have called the principles b of modality "postulates." I will not here take this expression in the significance that, A2 3 3 contrary to the usage' of mathematics, to whom it nevertheless properly belongs, some recent philosophical writers90 have used it, namely that postulation means the same as putting a proposition forth as immedi足 ately certain without justification or proof; for if we were to allow that synthetic propositions, no matter how evident they might be, could claim unconditional acceptance without any deduction, merely on their own claim, then all critique of the understanding would be lost, and, since there is no lack of audacious pretensions that common belief does B 286 not refuse (which is, however, no credential),d our understanding would therefore be open to every delusion, without being able to deny its ap足 proval to those claims that, though unjustifable, demand to be admitted as actual axioms in the very same confident tone. When, therefore, a determination is added a priori to the concept of a thing, then for such a proposition if not a proof then at least a deduction of the legitimacy of its assertion must unfailingly be supplied.
 
 The principles of modality are not, however, objective-synthetic, since the predicates of possibility, actuality, and necessity do not in the least augment the concept of which they are asserted in such a way as to add something to the representation of the object. But since they are neverA234 theless always synthetic, they are so only subjectively, i.e., they add to the concept of a thing (the real), about which they do not otherwise say any足 thing, the cognitive power whence it arises and has its seat, so that, if it is merely connected in the understanding with the formal conditions of experience, its object is called possible; if it is in connectione with perGrund a Principien b Sinn c' Kreditiv d , Beziehung 332 Section III.
 
