If we compare the doctrine of the soul, as the physiology of inner sense, with the doctrine of bodies, as a physiology of the objects of outer sense, then we will find that aside from the fact that in both doc­ trines much can be cognized empirically, there is nevertheless this re­ markable difference, that in the latter science much can be cognized a priori from the mere concept of an extended impenetrable being, but in the former science nothing at all can be cognized priori from the con­ a cept of a thinking being. The cause is this: Although both are appear­ ances, the appearance before outer sense has something standing and abiding in it, which supplies a substratum grounding the transitory de­ terminations, and thus also a synthetic concept, namely that of space and of an appearance in it; whereas time, which is the only form of our inner intuition, has in it nothing abiding, and hence gives cognition only of a change of determinations, but not of the determinable object. For in that which we call the soul, everything is in continual flux, and it has nothing abiding, except perhaps (if one insists)b the I, which is simple only because this representation has no content, and hence no manifold, on account of which it seems to represent a simple object,c or better put, it seems to designate one. This I would have to be an intuition, which, since it would be presupposed in all thinking in general (prior to all ex­ perience), would, as an intuition, supply priori synthetic propositions a if it were to be possible to bring about a pure rational cognition of the A382 nature of a thinking being in general. Yet this I is no more an intuition than it is a concept of any object; rather, it is the mere form of con­ sciousness,d which accompanies both sorts of representations and which can elevate them to cognitions only insofar as something else is given in intuition, which provides the material for the representation of an ob­ ject. Thus the whole of rational psychology, as a science transcending all the powers of human reason, collapses, and nothing is left except to Betrachtung n Kant later indicated that "perhaps (if one insists)" was to be omitted (E CLXIII p. 49; b 23:50).
 
 , Object d Kant corrects this to: " . . .t he (unknown to us) object [Object] of consciousness, ... " (E CLXIVp. 49; 23:50).
 
 432 Chapter 1.
 
