On Space <A> Besides space, however, there is no other subjective representation relateda to something external that could be called priori objective.
 
 a bHence this subjective condition of all outer appearances cannot be compared with any other. The pleasant taste of a wine does not belong to the objective determinations of the wine, thus of an object" even con­ sidered as an appearance, but rather to the particular constitution of sense in the subject that enjoys it. Colors are not objective qualities of the bodies to the intuition of which they are attached, but are also only modifications of the sense of sight, which is affected by light in a cer­ tain way. Space, on the contrary, as a condition of outer objects/ neces­ sarily belongs to their appearance or intuition. Taste and colors are by no means necessary conditions under which alone the objects can be A29 objectse of the senses for us. They are only combined with the appearance as contingently added effects of the particular organization. Hence they are not priori representations, but are grounded on sensation, and a pleasant taste is even grounded on feeling (of pleasure and displeasure) as an effect of the sensation. And no one can have a priori the representation either of a color or of any taste: but space concerns only the pure form of intuition, thus it includes no sensation (nothing empirical) in itself, and all kinds and determinations of space can and even must be able to be represented priori if concepts of shapes as well as relations a are to arise. Through space alone is it possible for things to be outer objects for us!
 
 The aim of this remark is only to prevent one from thinking of illus- B45 trating the asserted ideality of space with completely inadequate examples, since things like colors, taste, etc., are correctly considered not as qualities of things but as mere alterations of our subject, which can even be different in different people. For in this case that which is originally itself only appearance, e.g., a rose, counts in an empirical sense as a thing in itself, which yet can appear different to every eye in regard to A30 color. The transcendental concept of appearances in space, on the contrary, is a critical reminder that absolutely nothing that is intuited in space is a thing in itself, and that space is not a form that is proper to a bezogene bThe remainder of this paragraph is altered in the second edition: see B 44-5 below.
 
 Objects , Objecte d , Objecte f Inserted in the margin of Kant's copy: "Pure idealism concerns the existence of things outside us. Critical idealism leaves that undecided, and asserts only that the form of their intuition is merely in us." (E XXVI, p. 18; 23:23) A further note adds: "An idealism, from which the possibility ofa n priori cognition a and of mathematics can be cognized." (E XXVII, p. 19; 23:23) 161 Doctrine of Elements.
 
