Systematic representation of all synthetic principles Theorem The mere, but empirically determined, consciousness of my own existence proves the existence of objects in space outside me.
 
 Proof I am conscious of my existence as determined in time. All time-deter­ mination presupposes something persistent in perception. This persis­ tent thing, however, cannot be something in me, since my own existence in time can first be determined only through this persistent thing.a Thus the perception of this persistent thing is possible only through a thing outside me and not through the mere representation of a thing outside me. Consequently, the determination of my existence in time is possible only by means of the existenceb of actual things that I perceive outside myself. Now consciousness in time is necessarily B 276 combined with the consciousness of the possibility of this time-deter­ mination: Therefore it is also necessarily combined with the existence of the things outside me, as the condition of time-determination; i.e., the consciousness of my own existence is at the same time an immediate consciousness of the existence of other things outside me.
 
 Note 1. One will realize that in the preceding proof the game that idealism plays has with greater justice been turned against it. Idealism assumed that the only immediate experience is inner experience, and that from that outer things could only be inferred, but, as in any case in which one infers from given effects to determinate causes, only un­ reliably, since the cause of the representations that we perhaps falsely ascribe to outer things can also lie in us. Yet here it is proved that outer experience is really immediate, * that only by means of it is possible not, B 277 * The immediate consciousness oft he existence ofo uter things is not presup- B 276 posed but proved in the preceding theorem, whether we have insight into the possibility of this consciousness or not. The question about the latter would be whether we have only an inner sense but no outer one, rather merely outer imagination. But it is clear that in order for us even to imagine something as external, i.e., to exhibit it to sense in intuition, we must already have an outer B 2 77 sense, and by this means immediately distinguish the mere receptivity of an a According to the revised preface (Bxx)xix, this sentence is to be replaced by the follow­ ing: "This persistent thing, however, cannot be an intuition in me. For all grounds of de­ termination of my existence that can be encountered in me are representations, and as such require something persistent that is distinct even from them, in relation to which their change, thus my existence in the time in which they change, can be determined." Existenz b , Existenz 327 Doctrine of Elements.
 
