"36 Even though the rejection of this prin­ ciple follows from his "Principle of Succession," Kant did not yet rec­ ognize this, and would continue to maintain this part of Leibnizian metaphysics through the inaugural dissertation, even though that work would reject fundamental aspects of Leibniz's theory of space and time and introduce Kant's own mature theory of space and time. It would not be until the Critique of Pure Reason itself that Kant would recognize that thoroughgoing interaction among physical objects is a necessary condi­ tion of the unity of our own spatiotemporal experience, and that the unity of the physical world admits of no other ground than the unity of our experience; coming to this recognition would be one of the major accomplishments of the 77 os leading up to the Critique.
 
 I The philosophical works of 1762-6+ Around the time of the Nova dilw:idatio, Kant published two other works in natural science that would help to provide a foundation for his later philosophy. These are the Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heavens (1755) and the Metaphysicae cum geometria junctae usus in philosophia naturalis, cuius Specimem I continet Monadologiam Physicam (The Employment in Natu­ ral Philosophy of Metaphysics combined with Geometry, of which Sam­ ple I contains the Physical Monadology) (1756). However, the next period of major philosophical publication for Kant was the years 1762 to 1764, during which time Kant published four philosophical works all of which are important stepping stones to the Critique of Pure Reason.
 
 Three of these works appear to have been completed in the fall of 1762, possibly in this order: the False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures, published in 1762; The Only Possible Basis for a Demonstration of the Exis­ tence of God, published in 1763; and the Inquiry concerning the Distinctness of the Principles ofN atural Theology and Morality, the second-prize winner in a competition held by the Berlin Academy of Sciences, in which an "Essay on Evidence" by Moses Mendelssohn (1729-1785) won first prize. Finally, the Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy was completed and published by the summer of 1763.
 
 The essay on False Subtlety, which is primarily concerned to effect a simplification of the many classes of syllogism recognized in Aristotelian logic, would seem to contribute the least to the emergence of the Critique of Pure Reason. But in its "Concluding Reflection" Kant touches on one theme that will be crucial for both the formulation as well as the solution of virtually all the philosophical problems dealt with in the Critique. This is the claim that the fundamental notion in formal 28 Introduction logic and in the analysis of the powers of the human capacity for cog­ nition is the notion ofj udgment.
 
