On the relation of understanding to objects <A> perception, i.e., the thoroughgoing identity of oneself in all possible representations, grounds empirical consciousness priori. 27 a Now ifw e wish to follow the inner ground of this connection of rep­ resentations up to that point in which they must all come together in order first to obtain unity of cognition for a possible experience, then we must begin with pure apperception. All intuitions are nothing for us and do not in the least concern us if they cannot be taken up into con­ sciousness, whether they influence it directly or indirectly, and through this alone is cognition possible.28 We are conscious priori ofthe thor­ a oughgoing identity of ourselves with regard to all representations that can ever belong to our cognition, as a necessary condition of the possibility of all representations (since the latter represent something in me only insofar as they belong with all the others to one consciousness, hence they must at least be capable of being connected in it). This principle holds priori, and can be called the transcendental principleb a of the unity of all the manifold of our representations (thus also in in­ tuition). Now the unity of the manifold in a subject is synthetic; pure apperception therefore yields a principle of the synthetic unity of the A I 17 manifold in all possible intuition.* This synthetic unity, however, presupposes a synthesis, or includes it, A I 18 and if the former is to be necessary priori then the latter must also be a * One should attend carefully to this proposition, which is of great importance. A I I 7 All representations have a necessary relation to a possible empirical con­ sciousness: for if they did not have this, and if it were entirely impossible to become conscious of them, that would be as much as to say that they did not exist at all. All empirical consciousness, however, has a necessary relation to a tran­ scendental consciousness (preceding all particular experience), namely the con­ sciousness of myself, as original apperception. It is therefore absolutely necessary that in my cognition all consciousness belong to one consciousness (of myself). Now here is a synthetic unity of the manifold (of consciousness) that is cognized priori, and that yields the ground for synthetic priori propoa a sitions concerning pure thinking in exactly the same way that space and time yield such propositions concerning the form of mere intuition. The synthetic proposition that every different empirical consciousness must be combined into a single self-consciousness is the absolutely first and synthetic principle of our thinking in general. But it should not go unnoticed that the mere repre­ sentation I in relation to all others (the collective unity of which it makes possible) is the transcendental consciousness. Now it does not matter here whether this representation be clear (empirical consciousness) or obscure, even whether it be actual; but the possibility of the logical form of all cognition necessarily rests on the relationship this apperception as a faculty.
 
 to a Princip Princip b , Principium 237 Doctrine of Elements.
 
