Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. I how is the subsumption of the latter under the former, thus the appli­ cation of the category to appearances possible, since no one would say BI77/AI38 that the category, e.g., causality, could also be intuited through the senses and is contained in the appearance? This question, so natural and important, is really the cause which makes a transcendental doctrine of the power of judgment necessary, in order, namely, to show the possi­ bility of applying pure concepts of the understanding to appearances in general. In all other sciences, where the concepts through which the object is thought in general are not so different and heterogeneous from those that represent it in concreto, as it is given, it is unnecessary to offer a special discussion of the application of the former to the latter.
 
 Now it is clear that there must be a third thing, which must stand in homogeneity with the category on the one hand and the appearance on the other, and makes possible the application of the former to the lat­ ter. This mediating representation must be pure (without anything em­ pirical) and yet intellectual on the one hand and sensible on the other.
 
 Such a representation is the transcendental schema.
 
 The concept of the understanding contains pure synthetic unity of the manifold in general. Time, as the formal condition of the manifold of inner sense, thus of the connection of all representations, contains an a priori manifold in pure intuition. Now a transcendental time-deter­ mination is homogeneous with the category (which constitutes its B 178 unity) insofar as it is universal and rests on a rule a priori. But it is on A 139 the other hand homogeneous with the appearance insofar as time is contained in every empirical representation of the manifold. Hence an application of the category to appearances becomes possible by means of the transcendental time-determination which, as the schema of the concept of the understanding, mediates the subsumption of the latter under the former.
 
 After what has been shown in the deduction of the categories, hope­ fully no one will be in doubt about how to decide the question, whether these pure concepts of the understanding are of merely empirical or also of transcendental use, i.e., whether, as conditions of a possible experi­ ence, they relate a priori solely to appearances, or whether, as conditions of the possibility of things in general, they can be extended to objects in themselves (without any restriction to our sensibility). For we have seen there that concepts are entirely impossible,a and cannot have any signif­ icance, where an object is not given either for them themselves or at least for the elements of which they consist, consequently they cannot pertain to things in themselves (without regard to how and whether they may be given to us) at all; that, further, the modification of our sensibila Altered in Kant's copy of the first edition to "are for us without sense" (E LVIII, p. 28; 23:46).
 
 272 On the schematism of pure concepts of understanding" ity is the only way in which objects are given to us; and, finally, that pure concepts priori, in addition to the function of the understanding in the B 179 a category, must also contain a priori formal conditions of sensibility A 140 (namely of the inner sense) that contain the general condition under which alone the category can be applied to any object.
 
