Even those who reject Kant's solutions to the problems of grounding natural science and making sense of our moral agency must solve these problems and find a way to avoid what they find objectionable in Kant's solution to them. In this way, all modern thinkers are children of Kant, whether they are happy or bitter about their paternity.
 
 III.
 
 THE EVOLUTION OF THE CRITIQUE The Critique of Pure Reason has often been represented as the product of a violent revolution in Kant's thought that took place around I772 -a midlife crisis in which the forty-eight-year-old thinker re­ jected his previous adherence to the Leibnizian-Wolffian philosophy, the systematic philosophy that Christian Wolff (I679-I754) had cre­ ated out of the brilliant fragments that were all that was then known of the philosophy of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646-I7I6) and that had become the dominant philosophy in enlightened German universities after the I720S. Kant himself gave rise to this legend with several of his own remarks, above all his comment in the introduction to his Prolegomena to Any Futu1'e Metaphysics -the short work that Kant pub­ lished in 1783 to try to overcome the initially indifferent or hostile re­ ception of the Critique -that "it was the recollection of David Hume that many years ago first interrupted my dogmatic slumber and gave an entirely different direction to my investigations in the field of spec­ ulative philosophy."2! There were certainly major changes in Kant's thought both before and after the publication of his inaugural disserta­ tion, De mundi sensibilis atque intelligibilis forma et principiis (On the Form and Principles of the Sensible and Intelligible World) in I770, the last publication preceding the years of intense but unpublished work leading up to the publication of the Critique in I78I. Nevertheless, Kant has misled those who have supposed that all his work in the years preceding this point was slumbering in Wolffian dogmatism, and that he awoke from this slumber only through some sudden recollection of the skepticism of David Hume (I7II-I776).
 
 In fact, Kant had been chipping away at fundamental tenets of the Leibnizian-Wolffian synthesis at least since the publication of his first exclusively philosophical work, his M.A. thesis Principiorum primor um cognitionis metaphysicae nova dilucidatio (A New Elucidation of the First Principles of Metaphysical Cognition) in I755. There were certainly major developments in the content of Kant's philosophical views in the period around I 769-70 leading to the publication of the inaugural dis­ sertation, and then further developments in Kant's doctrines and his 23 Introduction conception of philosophical method in the period beginning in 1772 and culminating in the publication of the Critique.
 
