Such a Critique would basically have consisted of a theory of sensibility, a theory of experience, and an antinomy of pure reason.
 
 Clearly Kant needed more time to understand the positive function of pure reason, which is only hinted at in these notes. But this is not the only way that the outline of the Critique that we can construct for the period around 1777 differs from the work as finally published. There are several other glaring differences. First, tl1e "transcendental theory of experience," or theory of the "immanent use" of the concepts of un­ derstanding, is not yet divided into a transcendental deduction of the categories and a derivation of the principles of judgment used in the ex­ position of appearances, as it will be in the published work. Second, all of these notes suggest that the content of the "Dialectic" is exhausted by the four antinomies of pure reason, whereas in the published Critique the Dialectic is divided into three parts, the "Paralogism," "Antinomy," and "Ideal of Pure Reason." Can we learn anything about what led to these further divisions of the Critique before it finally took on the form Kant gave it in 1779 and 178o?
 
 1778-80. Fortunately, some notes assigned to the period 1776-78 rather than 1775-77 survive and throw light on the final development of Kant's conception of the Critique. In one note that has been assigned to the later part of this period, Kant for the first time suggests that there may be a deduction of the categories as necessary conditions of apper­ ception or the unity of consciousness that does not depend upon the temporal character of the data to be unified. Since this may be the ear­ liest surviving sketch of a transcendental deduction conceived of as sep­ arate from and antecedent to the argument to the categories as conditions of the possibility of the exposition of appearances, or what Kant would come to call the "Analogies of Experience," it is worth quoting this passage in full: In everything passive or what is given, apprehension must not merely be found, but it must also be necessitated in order to represent it as given, i.e., the indi­ vidual apprehension must be determined by the universal. The universal is the relation to the others and to the whole of the state. By being distinguished from the arbitrary is it considered as given, and only by being subsumed under the categories is it considered as something. It must therefore be represented in ac­ cordance with a rule by which appearance becomes experience and by which the 60 Introduction mind comprehends it as one of its actions of self-consciousness, within which, as in space and time, all data are to be encountered.
 
