On the logical function in judgments I. The logicians rightly say that in the use of judgments in syllogisms singular judgments can be treated like universal ones. For just because they have no domain at all, their predicate is not merely related to some of what is contained under the concept of the subject while being ex足 cluded from another part of it. The predicate therefore holds of that concept without exception, just as if the latter were a generally valida concept with a domain with the predicate applying to the whole of what is signified. b If, on the contrary, we compare a singular judgment with a generally valid one, merely as cognition, with respect to quantity," then the formerd relates to the latter as unity relates to infinity, and is therefore in itself essentially different from the latter. Therefore, if! consider a singular judgment (judicium singulare) not only with respect to its internal validity, but also, as cognition in general, with respect to the quantitye it has in comparison with other cognitions, then it is surely i different from generally valid judgments (judicia communia), and deserves a special place in a complete table of the moments of thinking in general (though obviously not in that logic that is limited only to the B 97 use of judgments with respect to each other).
 
 2. Likewise, in a transcendental logic infinite judgments must also be distinguished from affirmative ones, even though in general logic A 72 they are rightly included with the latter and do not constitute a special member of the classification. General logic abstracts from all content of the predicate (even if it is negative), and considers only whether it is at足 tributed to the subject or opposed to it. Transcendental logic, however, also considers the value or content of the logical affirmation made in a judgment by means of a merely negative, predicate, and what sort of gain this yields for the whole of cognition,Jf I had said of the soul that it is not mortal, then I would at least have avoided an error by means of a negative judgment. Now by means of the proposition "The soul is not mortal" I have certainly made an actual affirmation as far as logical form is concerned, for I have placed the soul within the unlimited domain of undying beings. Now since that which is mortal contains one part of the whole domain of possible beings, but that which is undying! the other, a ge11leingiiltiger. While this would normally be translated "commonly valid," in this con足 text it clearly refers to the universal (allge11lein) judgment; we have used "generally" to preserve this reference while still marking the difference from allge11lein.
 
 b von dessen ganzer Bedeutung; here Kant uses Bedeutung, as Frege was later to use it, to mean the reference or denotation of a concept; more typically, he uses it to mean some足 thing closer to what Frege called Sinn or sense, that is, the connotation.
 
 , Grofle d The text has sie rather than es, but in spite of the shift in gender there is nothing for the pronoun to refer to except "a singular judgment." , Grofle f In the second edition, Nichtsterbende; in the first, Nichtsterbliche, or "immortal." 207 Doctrine of Elements.
 
