On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> "I think" (the manifold in a representation). For although the whole of the thought could be divided and distributed among many subjects, the subjective I cannot be divided or distributed, and this I we presuppose in all thinking.
 
 Here, therefore, as in the previous paralogism, the formal proposi­ tion of apperception, I think, remains the entire ground on which ra­ tional psychology ventures to extend its cognitions; this proposition is of course obviously not an experience, but rather the form of appercep­ tion, on which every experience depends and which precedes it, yet it must nevertheless always be regarded only in regarda to a possible cog­ nition in general, as its merely subjective condition, which we un­ justly make into a condition of the possibility of the cognition of objects, namely into a concept of a thinking being in general, because we are unable to represent this being without positing ourselves along witll the formula of our consciousness, in the place of every other in­ telligent being.
 
 But the simplicity of my self (as soul) is not really inferred from the proposition "I think," but rather the former lies already in every thought itself. The proposition I simple must be regarded as an immediate A3SS am expression of apperception, just as the supposed Cartesian inference cogito, ergo sumb is in fact tautological, since the cogito (sum cogitans/ immediately asserts the reality. But I am simple signifies no more than that this representation I encompasses not the least manifoldness within itself, and that it is an absolute (though merely logical) unity.
 
 Thus the so famous psychological proof is grounded merely on the indivisible unity of a representation, which governs the verb only in re­ gard to a person. But it is obvious that the subject of inherence is des­ ignated only transcendentally through the I that is appended to thoughts, without noting the least property of it, or cognizing or know­ ing anything at all about it. It signifies only a Something in general (a transcendental subject), the representation of which must of course be simple, just because one determines nothing at all about it; for certainly nothing can be represented as more simple than that which is repre­ sented through the concept of a mere Something. But the simplicity of the representation of a subject is not therefore a cognition of the sim­ plicity of the subject itself, since its properties are entirely abstracted from if it is designated merely through the expression "I," wholly empty of content (which I can apply to every thinking subject).
 
 This much is certain: through the I, I always think" an absolute but A3S6 a nur in Ansehung ...a ngesehen b I think, therefore I am.
 
 e I think (I am thinking).
 
 d gedenke 419 Doctrine of Elements.
 
