Today it would strike him as convincing that the human will is free; tomorrow, when he considered the indissoluble chain of nature, he would side with the view that freedom is nothing but self-deception, and that everything is mere nature. But now if it came to be a matter of doing or acting, then this play of merely speculative reason would disappear like the phantom imagesb of a dream, and he would choose his principlesc merely according to practical interest. But because mere honesty requires that a reflective and inquiring being should devote certain times solely to testing its own reason, withdrawing entirely from all partiality and publicly communicating his remarks to others for their judgment,d no one can be reproached for, still less restrained from, letting the propositions and counter-propositions, terrorized by A4 76/ B 504 no threats, come forward to defend themselves before a jury drawn from their own estate (namely the estate of fallible e human beings).
 
 The Antinomy of Pure Reason Fourth Section The transcendental problems of pure reason, insofar as they absolutely must be capable of a solution.
 
 Wanting to solve all problems and answer all questions would be impu­ dent boasting and such extravagant self-conceit that one would instantly forfeit all trust. Nevertheless, there are sciences whose nature entails that every question occurring in them must absolutely be answerable from what one knows, because the answer must arise from the same source as the question; and there it is in no way allowed to plead un­ avoidable ignorance, but rather a solution can be demanded. One must be able to know what is just or unjust in all possible cases in accordance with a rule, because our obligations are at stake, and we cannot have any obligation to do what we cannot know/ In the explanation of the apa Gedriinge b Schattenbilder , Principien d anderen zur Beurtheilung , scbwacber f In his copy of the first edition, Kant adds: "In the case of each antinomy, it must be shown that if objects of the senses are assumed as things in themselves, no resolution of this conflict would be possible. Consequently if the proposition were not proved above, it could be inferred from this." (E CLXIX, p. 50; 23:40) 503 Doctrine of Elements.
 
