On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> outside us that is not coherent with their effects in us, because the char­ acter of the cause relates merely to outer sense, while the effects relate to inner sense; which senses, although united in one subject, are never­ theless most unlike each other. There we have no other external effects except alterations of place, and no powers except efforts that result in relations a in space as their effects. But in us the effects are thoughts, among which no relationsb of place, motion, shape or spatial determi- A387 nation occur, and we wholly lose the guidance of causes in the effects which they are to exhibit in inner sense. But we should consider that bodies are not objects in themselves that are present to us, but rather a mere appearance of who knows what unknown object; that motion is not the effect of this unknown cause, but merely the appearance of its influence on our senses; that consequently neither of these is something outside us, but both are merely representations in us, hence that it is not the motion of matter that causes representations in us, but that motion itself (hence also the matter that makes itself knowable through it) is a mere representation; and finally that the whole self-made difficulty comes to this: How and through what cause do the representations of our sensibility stand in combination with one another, so that those representations that we call outer intuitions can be represented according to empirical laws as objects outside us? -a question that does not in tlle least contain the supposed difficulty of explaining the origin of rep­ resentations by entirely different sorts of efficient causes found outside us, as when we take the appearance of an unknown cause for the cause outside us, which can occasion nothing but confusion. In judgments in which a misinterpretation is deeply rooted through long habit, it is im­ possible to correct them immediately with that lucidity that can be fur- A 388 thered in other cases, where our concept is not confused by such an unavoidable illusion. Hence our liberation of reason from sophistical theories can hardly have the clarity necessary for complete satisfaction.
 
 I believe I can further it in the following way.
 
 All objections can be divided into dogmatic, critical and skeptical ones. A dogmatic objection is one that is directed against a proposition, but a critical one is directed against its proof. The former requires an insight into the constitution of the nature of the object, in order to be able to assert the opposite of what the proposition claims about the ob­ ject; it is itself dogmatic, therefore, and claims to have better acquain­ tance with the constitution of the object being talked about than its opposite has. The critical objection, because it leaves the proposition untouched in its worth or worthlessness, and impugns only the proof, a Verhiiltnisse Verhiiltnisse b 435 Doctrine of Elements.
 
