Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> that may be outside us in the transcendental sense is the cause of our outer intuitions, but this is not the object we understand by the repre­ sentation of matter and corporeal things; for these are merely appear­ ances, i.e., mere modes of representation, which are always found only in us, and their reality, just as much as that of my own thoughts, rests on immediate consciousness. The transcendental object is equally unknown A373 in regard to inner and to outer sense. But we are talking not about that, but about the empirical object, which is called an external object if it is in space and an inner object if it is represented simply in the relationa of time; but space and time are both to be encountered only in us.
 
 But since the expression outside us carries with it an unavoidable ambiguity, since it sometimes signifies something that, as a thing in it­ self, exists distinct from us and sometimes merely something that be­ longs to outer appearance, then in order to escape uncertainty and use this concept in the latter significance -in which it is taken in the proper psychological question about the reality of our outer intuition -we will distinguish empirically external objects from those that might be called "external" in the transcendental sense, by directly calling them "things that are to be encountered in space."3I Space and time are of course representations priori, which dwell in a us as forms of our sensible intuition before any real object has even de­ termined our inner sense through sensation in such a way that we rep­ resent it under those sensible relations.b This material or real entity, however, this Something that is to be intuited in space, necessarily pre­ supposes perception, and it cannot be invented by any power of imagi­ nation or produced independently of perception, which indicates the A374 reality of something in space. Thus sensation is that which designates a reality in space and time, according to whether it is related to the one or the other mode of sensible intuition. Once sensation is given (which, if it is applied to an object in general without determining it, is called per­ ception), then through its manifold many an object can be invented C in imagination that has no empirical place outside imagination in space or time. Whether we take sensations, pleasure and pain, or even external sensations, such as colors, warmth, etc., it is certain beyond doubt that it is perception through which the material must first be given for think­ ing objects of sensible intuition. This perception thus represents (stay­ ing for now only with outer intuitions) something real in space. For first, perception is the representation of a reality, just as space is the rep­ resentation of a mere possibility of coexistence.d Second, this reality is Verhiiltnis a Verhiiltnisse b , gedichtet d Beisammenseins 428 Chapter I.
 
