Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <A> 1. The synthesis of the conditions of a thought in general.
 
 2. The synthesis of the conditions of empirical thinking.
 
 3. The synthesis of the conditions of pure thinking.
 
 In all three of these cases pure reason is concerned merely with the absolute totality of this synthesis, i.e., with that condition that is itself unconditioned. On this division is grounded the threefold transcenden­ tal illusion, which occasions the three sections of the Dialectic, and pro­ vides us with the idea for an equal number of putative sciences of pure reason: transcendental psychology, cosmology and theology. Here we have to do only with the first.
 
 Because in thinking in general we abstract from every relation of the thought to any objecta (whether of sense or of the pure understanding), the synthesis of conditions of a thought in general (No. I) is not objec­ tive at all, but merely a synthesis of thought with the subject, which is, however, falsely taken to be a synthetic representation of an object.b But it follows from this that the dialectical inference to the conditions of every thought in general, which is itself unconditioned, does not commit a mistake in content (for it abstracts from all content or ob­ A398 jects),c but rather that it is mistaken in form alone, and would have to be called a paralogism.
 
 Because, further, the only condition accompanying all thinking is the I, in the universal proposition "I think," reason has to do with this con­ dition insofar as it is itself unconditioned. But it is only the formal con­ dition, namely the logical unity of every thought, in which I abstract from every object; and yet it is represented as an object that I think, namely I itself, and its unconditioned unity.
 
 If anyone were to pose the question to me: What is the constitutiond of a thing that thinks? then I do not know the least thing to answer a priori, because the answer ought to be synthetic (for an analytic answer perhaps explains thinking, but gives no extended cognition of that on which thinking rests as to its possibility).' But for every synthetic solu­ tion, intuition is necessary; but this is entirely left out of so universal a problem. Likewise, no one can give a general answer to the question: Of what kind must a thing be in order to be movable? For then impen­ etrable extension (matter) is not given. But now although I know no general answer to that question, yet it seems to me that I could give it in the individual case, in the proposition that expresses self-consciousa Object b Object , Objecte Beschaffenheit d , Kant's text fails to close the parenthesis, but following Erdmann, we close it at this point.
 
 440 Chapter I.
 
