Of course, if! know a drop of water as a thing in itself according to all of its inner determinations, I cannot let any one drop count as different from another if the entire concept of the former is identical with that of the latter. But if it is an appearance in space, then it has its place not merely in the understanding (under concepts), but also in the sensible outer intuition (in space), and since the physical places are entirely indifferent with regard to the inner de­ terminations of the things, a place b can just as readily accept a thing = that is fully similar and equal to another in a place a as it could if the = former were ever so internally different from the latter. Without fur­ ther conditions, the difference in place already makes the multiplicity and distinction of objects as appearances not only possible in itself but also necessary. Thus that putative law is no law of nature. It is simply an analytical rule or comparison of things through mere concepts.
 
 Second, the principle that realities (as mere affirmations) never logically oppose each other is an entirely true proposition about the rela- A273 tions of concepts, but signifies nothing at all either in regard to nature B 329 nor overall in regard to anything in itself (of this we have no concept).
 
 For real opposition always obtains where A B i.e., where one re- = 0, ality, if combined in one subject with another, cancels out the effect of the latter, which is unceasingly placed before our eyes by all hindrances and countereffects in nature, which, since they rest on forces, must be called realitates phaenomena.a General mechanics can even provide the empirical condition of this opposition in aD a priori rule by looking to the opposition of directions -a condition about which the transcendental concept of reality knows nothing at all. 106 Although Herr von Leibniz did not exactly announce this proposition with the pomp of a new principle, he nevertheless used it for new assertions, and his successors expressly incorporated it into their Leibnizian-Wolffian doctrine. According to this principle, e.g., all ills are nothing but conse­ quences of the limits of created beings, i.e., negations, since these are the only opposing things in reality (this is really so in the concept of a thing in general, but not in things as appearances).107 Similarly, its adherents find it not merely possible but also natural to unite all reality in B 330 one being without any worry about opposition, since they do not rec- A 274 ognize any opposition except that of contradiction (through which the concept of a thing would itself be canceled out), lOS and do not recognize the opposition of reciprocal destruction, where one real ground cancels out the effect of another, the conditions for the representation of which we find only in sensibility.
 
 Third, the Leibnizian monadology has no ground at all other than the fact that this philosopher represented the distinction of the inner n phenomenal realities 373 Doctrine of Elements.
 
