Grounds of the possibility of experience <A> moment no representation can ever be anything other than absolute unity. Now in order for unity of intuition to come from this manifold (as, say, in the representation of space), it is necessary first to run through and then to take together this manifoldness, which action I call the synthesis of apprehension, since it is aimed directly at the intu­ ition, which to be sure provides a manifold but can never effect this as such, and indeed as contained in one representation, without the oc­ currence of such a synthesis.
 
 Now this synthesis of apprehension must also be exercised priori, a i.e., in regard to representations that are not empirical. For without it we could have priori neither the representations of space nor of time, a since these can be generated only through the synthesis of the manifold A 100 that sensibility in its original receptivity provides. We therefore have a pure synthesis of apprehension.
 
 2.
 
 On the synthesis of reproduction in the imagination.
 
 It is, to be sure, a merely empirical law in accordance with which rep­ resentations that have often followed or accompanied one another are finally associated with each other and thereby placed in a connection in accordance with which, even without the presence of the object, one of these representations brings about a transition of the mind to the other in accordance with a constant rule. This law of reproduction, however, presupposes that the appearances themselves are actually subject to such a rule, and that in the manifold of their representations an accom­ paniment or succession takes place according to certain rules; for with­ out that our empirical imagination would never get to do anything suitable to its capacity,a and would thus remain hidden in the interior of the mind, like a dead and to us unknown faculty. If cinnabar were now red, now black, now light, now heavy, if a human being were now changed into this animal shape, now into that one, if on the longest day the land were covered now with fruits, now with ice and snow, then my A 101 empirical imagination would never even get the opportunity to think of heavy cinnabar on the occasion of the representation of the color red; or if a certain word were attributed now to this thing, now to that, or if one and the same thing were sometimes called this, sometimes that, without the governance of a certain rule to which the appearances are already subjected in themselves, then no empirical synthesis of repro­ duction could take place.
 
 There must therefore be something that itself makes possible this ren Vermogen 229 Doctrine of Elements.
 
