It must first be remarked that properly mathematical propositions are always priori judgments and are never empirical, because they carry a necessity with them, which cannot be derived from experience. But if B 15 one does not want to concede this, well then, I will restrict myproposi­ tion to pure mathematics, the concept of which already implies that it does not contain empirical but merely pure priori cognition.
 
 a To be sure, one might initially think that the proposition "7 + 5 I2 " = is a merely analytic proposition that follows from the concept of a sum of seven and five in accordance with the principle of contradiction. Yet if one considers it more closely, one finds that the concept of the sum of 7 and 5 contains nothing more than the unification of both numbers in a single one, through which it is not at all thought what this single number is which comprehends the two of them. The concept of twelve is by no means already thought merely by my thinking of that unifica­ tion of seven and five, and no matter how long I analyze my concept of such a possible sum I will still not find twelve in it. One must go beyond these concepts, seeking assistance in the intuition that corresponds to one of the two, one's five fingers, say, or (as in Segner's arithmetic)!7 five points, and one after another add the units of the five given in the intu­ ition to the concept of seven. cF or I take first the number 7, and, as I take the fingers of my hand as an intuition for assistance with the con­ cept of 5, to that image of mine I now add the units that I have previB 16 ously taken together in order to constitute the number 5 one after another to the number 7, and thus see the number I2 arise. That 7 should be added to 5 I have, to be sure, thought in the concept of a sum = 7 + 5, but not that this sum is equal to the number I 2. The arith­ metical proposition is therefore always synthetic; one becomes all the more distinctly aware of that if one takes somewhat larger numbers, for it is then clear that, twist and turn our concepts as we will, without get­ ting help from intuition we could never find the sum by means of the mere analysis of our concepts.
 
 a Satz Kant switches number from "man" to "sie." b , This and the following sentence are substituted here for the clause "Man erweitet also wirklich seinen Begriff durch diesen Satz 7 + 5 = 12 und thut zu dem ersteren Begriff einen neuen hinzu, der in jenem gar nicht gedacht war" (One therefore really amplifies his con­ cept through this proposition "7 + 5 = I2" and adds a new concept to the former, which was not thought in it) in the Prolegomena (4:z69).
 
 144 Introduction <B> Just as little is any principle of pure geometry analytic.
 
