Ch. I. Sec. II The famous David Hume was one of these geographers of human reason, who took himself to have satisfactorily disposed of these ques­ tions by having expelled them outside the horizon of human reason, which however he could not determine. He dwelt primarily on the prin­ ciple of causality, and quite rightly remarked about that that one could not base its truth (indeed not even the objective validity of the concept of an efficient cause in general) on any insight at all, i.e., a priori cogni­ tion, and thus that the authority of this law is not constituted in the least by its necessity, but only by its merely general usefulness in the course of experience and a subjective necessity arising therefrom, which he called custom.I9 Now from the incapacity of our reason to make a use of this principle that goes beyond all experience, he inferred the nullity of all pretensions of reason in general to go beyond the empirical.
 
 One can call a procedure of this sort, subjecting the facta of reason to examination and when necessary to blame, the censorship of reason. It is beyond doubt that this censorship inevitably leads to doubt about all A 761/ B 789 transcendent use of principles. But this is only the second step, which is far from completing the work. The first step in matters of pure reason, which characterizes its childhood, is dogmatic. The just mentioned second step is skeptical, and gives evidencea of the caution of the power of judgment sharpened by experience. Now, however, a third step is still necessary, which pertains only to the mature and adult power!' of judg­ ment, which has at its basis firm maxims of proven universality, that, namely, which subjects to evaluation not the facta of reason but reason itself, as concerns its entire capacityc and suitability for pure a priori cognitions; this is not the censorship but the critique of pure reason, whereby not merely limits but rather the determinate boundaries of it -not merely ignorance in one part or another but ignorance in regard to all possible questions of a certain sort -are not merely sus­ pected but are proved from principles.d Thus skepticism is a resting­ place for human reason, which can reflect upon its dogmatic peregri­ nation and make a survey of the region in which it finds itself in order to be able to choose its path in the future with greater certainty, but it is not a dwelling-place for permanent residence; for the latter can only be found in a complete certainty, whether it be one of the cognition of the objects themselves or of the boundaries within which all of our cogA 762/ B 790 nition of objects is enclosed.
 
 Our reason is not like an indeterminably extended plane, the limits of a zeugt; in A, zeigt. If zeugt is a misprint introduced in E, then the translation would be "shows." b miinnlichen , Vermijgen d Principien 654 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use which one can cognize only in general, but must rather be compared with a sphere, the radius of which can be found out from the curvature of an arc on its surface (from the nature of synthetic a priori proposi­ tions), from which its content and its boundary can also be ascertained with certainty.
 
