We shall content ourselves here with the completion of our task, namely, merely outlining the architectonic of all cognition from pure reason, and begin only at the point where the general root of our cognitive power divides and branches out into two stems, one of which is reason. By "reason" I here understand, however, the entire higher faculty of cognition, and I therefore contrast the·r ational to the empirical.
 
 If I abstract from all content of cognition, objectively considered, then all cognition, considered subjectively, is either historical or ratio- A836/ B 864 nal. Historical cognition40 is cognitio ex datis,a rational cognition, however, cognitio ex principiis.b However a cognition may have been given originally, it is still historical for him who possesses it if he cognizes it only to the degree and extent that it has been given to him from elsewhere, whether it has been given to him through immediate experience or told to him or even given to him through instruction (general cognitions). Hence he who has properly learned a system of philosophy, e.g., the Wolffian system, although he has in his head all of the principles, explanations, and proofs together with the division of the entire theoretical edifice, and can count everything off on his fingers, still has nothing other than a complete historical cognition of the Wolffian philosophy; he knows and judges only as much as has been given to him. If you dispute one of his definitions, he has no idea where to get another one. He has formed himself according to an alien reason, but the faculty of imitation is not that of generation, i.e., the cognition did not arise from reason for him, and although objectively it was certainly a rational cognition, subjectively it is still merely historical. He has grasped and preserved well, i.e., he has learned, and is a plaster cast of a living human being. Rational cognitions that are objectively so (i.e., could have arisen originally only out of the reason of human beings themselves), may also bear this name subjectively only if they have been drawn out of the universal sources of reason, from which critique, in- A837 / B 865 deed even the rejection of what has been learned, can also arise, i.e., from principles.c Now all rational cognition is either cognition from concepts or cog­ nition from the construction of concepts; the former is called philo­ sophical, the latter mathematical. I have already dealt with the inner difference between the two in the first chapter.4' A cognition can ac­ cordingly be objectively philosophical and yet subjectively historical, as a cognition from data, or from what is given.
 
 b cognition from principles , Principien 693 Doctrine of Method.
 
