Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II matter), unanimously infer from this that this volume (extensive magni­ tude of the appearance) must be empty in all matter, although to be sure in different amounts. But who among these for the most part mathe­ matical and mechanical students of nature ever realized that their infer­ ence rested solely on a metaphysical presupposition, which they make so much pretense of avoiding? -for they assume that the real in space (l cannot call it here impenetrability or weight, since these are empirical concepts), is everywhere one and the same, and can be differentiated only according to its extensive magnitude, i.e., amount.a Against this presupposition, for which they can have no ground in experience and which is therefore merely metaphysical, I oppose a transcendental proof, A174 which, to be sure, will not explain the variation in the filling of space, but which still will entirely obviate the alleged necessity of the presupposi­ tion that the difference in question cannot be explained except by the as­ sumption of empty spaces, and which has the merit of at least granting the understanding the freedom also to think of this difference in another B 2 16 way, ift he explanation ofn ature should make some hypothesis necessary for this end. For there we see that, although equal spaces can be com­ pletely filled with different matters in such a way that in neither of them is there a point in which the presence of matter is not to be encountered, nevertheless everything real has for the same quality its degree (of resis­ tance or of weight) which, without diminution of the extensive magni­ tude or amount/ can become infinitely smaller until it is transformed into emptiness and disappears. Thus an expansion that fills a space, e.g.
 
 warmth, and likewise every other reality (in appearance) can, without in the least leaving the smallest part of this space empty, decrease in degree infinitely, and nonetheless fill the space with this smaller degree just as well as another appearance does with a larger one. My aim here is by no means to assert that this is how it really is concerning the specific grav­ ity of the variety of matters, but only to establish, on the basis of a prinA 175 ciple of pure understanding, that the nature of our perceptions makes an explanation of this sort possible, and that it is false to assume that the real in appearance is always equal in degree and differs only in aggregation and its extensive magnitude, especially when this is allegedly asserted on the basis of a principle of understanding priori.
 
 a B217 Nevertheless there must always be something striking about this anticipation of perception for a researcher who has become accustomed to transcendental consideration and thereby become cautious, and some reservation is aroused about the fact that the understanding can antici­ pate a synthetic proposition of the sort which that concerning the de­ gree of everything real in appearance is, and thus about the possibility Menge a Menge b 294 Section III.
 
