Consistency of translation. Although many of Kant's major works have been translated by the most distinguished scholars of their day, some of these translations are now dated, and there is considerable terminolog­ ical disparity among them. Our aim has been to enlist some of the most accomplished Kant scholars and translators to produce new transla­ tions, freeing readers from both the philosophical and literary precon­ ceptions of previous generations and allowing them to ,approach texts, as far as possible, with the same directness as present-day readers of the German or Latin originals.
 
 In pursuit of these goals, our editors and translators attempt to fol­ low several fundamental principles: I. As far as seems advisable, the edition employs a single general glos­ sary, especially for Kant's technical terms. Although we have not at­ tempted to restrict the prerogative of editors and translators in choice of terminology, we have maximized consistency by putting a single ed­ itor or editorial team in charge of each of the main groupings of Kant's writings, such as his work in practical philosophy, philosophy of reli­ gion, or natural science, so that there will be a high degree of termino­ logical consistency, at least in dealing with the same subject matter.
 
 2. Our translators try to avoid sacrificing literalness to readability.
 
 We hope to produce translations that approximate the originals in the sense that they leave as much of the interpretive work as possible to the reader.
 
 3. The paragraph, and even more the sentence, is often Kant's unit of argument, and one can easily transform what Kant intends as a contin­ uous argument into a mere series of assertions by breaking up a sen­ tence so as to make it more readable. Therefore, we try to preserve Kant's own divisions of sentences and paragraphs wherever possible.
 
 4. Earlier editions often attempted to improve Kant's texts on the basis of controversial conceptions about their proper interpretation. In our translations, emendation or improvement of the original edition is kept to the minimum necessary to correct obvious typographical errors.
 
 5. Our editors and translators try to minimize interpretation in other ways as well, for example, by rigorously segregating Kant's own foot­ notes, the editors' purely linguistic notes, and their more explanatory or informational notes; notes in this last category are treated as endnotes rather than footnotes.
 
 We have not attempted to standardize completely the format of indi­ vidual volumes. Each, however, includes information about the context in which Kant wrote the translated works, a German-English glossary, an English-German glossary, an index, and other aids to comprehen­ sion. The general introduction to each volume includes an explanation of specific principles of translation and, where necessary, principles of selection of works included in that volume. The pagination of the stanVlli General editors' preface dard German edition of Kant's works, Knnt's Gesammelte Schriften, edited by the Royal Prussian (later German) Academy of Sciences (Berlin: Georg Reimer, later Walter de Gruyter & Co.
 
