Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. <A> gories is thus in fact no use at alV and has no determinate or even, as A248 far as its form is concerned, determinable object. From this it also fol­ lows that the pure category does not suffice for any synthetic priori a principle, and that the principles of the pure understanding are only of empirical but never of transcendental use; but nowhere beyond the field B 305 of possible experience can there be any synthetic priori principles.
 
 a It may therefore be advisable to express ourselves thus: The pure cat­ egories, without formal conditions of sensibility, have merely transcen­ dental significance, but are not of any transcendental use, since this is impossible in itself, for they are lacking all conditions of any use (in judgments), namely the formal condition of the subsumption of any sort of supposed object under these concepts. Thus since (as merely pure categories) they are not supposed to have empirical use, and can­ not have transcendental use, they do not have any use at all if they are separated from all sensibility, i.e., they cannot be applied to any sup­ posed object at all; rather they are merely the pure form of the use of the understanding in regard to objects in general and of thinking, yet without any sort of objectb being able to be thought or determined through them alone.c a Kant's copy of the first edition inserts here: "for the cognition of anything" (E CXXVII, p. 41; 23'48).
 
 b Object C The following notes are inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition at A 248, presumably drafts of the changes that were to be made at this point in the second edition: "One can give the possibility of a thing only through intuition, either empirical or a priori intuition. lhe former is empirical, the latter at least sensible. Both therefore pertain to phaenomena. No theoretical cognition of noumenon at all, but practical rela­ tion to a subject, insofar as it is not phaenomenon." (E CXXVIII, p. 42; 23:3 5-6) "If something is found, not to be sure in the sensible world, but yet in our pure consciousness of reason, which is absolutely contrary to laws of the former, e.g., that of causality, then we belong to the noumenon, but can have to that extent no knowl­ edge of ourselves, but yet can at least concede the possibility of it." (E CXXIX, p. 42; 23'36) "Beings of understanding are properly those to which nothing but intellectual intu­ ition corresponds. Now since our understanding is not able to intuit, this intellectual in­ tuition is nothing for us. Thus nothing is left for us but concepts of the understanding.
 
 But these are merely forms of thought, so that if one would apply them alone to an ob­ ject [Object], without an example for sensible intuition that something can correspond to them, they cannot be comprehended at all." (E CXXX, p. 42; 23:36) "Objects of a non-sensible intuition are either given in a sensible intuition or not. If the first, then they are certainly appearances, but one cannot know whether they could be cognized in some other way, and whether intellectual intuition is possible. Since I have no intellectual intuition, I cannot even cognize the possibility of objects that can­ not be given in any sensible intuition at all, and objects of an intuition of the under­ standing would be mere problematical beings, and all noumena or beings of the understanding are be regarded as such. N.B." (E CXXXI, pp. 42-3; 23:36) to 346 Chapter III.
 
