Pt. II. Div. II. Book I the way to the absolutely unconditioned. We can therefore call this the unity of reason in appearances, just as that which the category ex­ presses can be called the unity of understanding. Thus reason relates itself only to the use of the understanding, not indeed insofar as the lat­ ter contains the ground of possible experience (for the absolute totality of conditions is not a concept that is usable in an experience, because no experience is unconditioned), but rather in order to prescribe the di­ rection toward a certain unity of which the understanding has no con­ cept, proceeding to comprehend all the actions of the understanding in A 3 2 7 respect of every object into an absolute whole. Hence the objective use of the pure concepts of reason is always transcendent, while that of the pure concepts of understanding must by its nature always be imma­ nent, since it is limited solely to possible experience.
 
 By the idea of a necessary concept of reason, I understand one to which no congruent object can be given in the senses. Thus the pure concepts of reason we have just examined are transcendental ideas.
 
 B 384 They are concepts of pure reason; for they consider all experiential cognition as determined through an absolute totality of conditions.
 
 They are not arbitrarily invented, but given as problemsa by the nature of reason itself, and hence they relate necessarily to the entire use of the understanding. Finally, they are transcendent concepts, and exceed the bounds of all experience, in which no object adequate to the transcen­ dental idea can ever occur. When we call something an idea, we are say­ ing a great deal about its objectb (as an object of pure understanding), but just for this reason very little about the subject (i.e., in respect of its actuality under empirical conditions), since, as the concept of a maxi­ mum, nothing congruent to it can ever be given in concreto. Now beA 328 cause in the merely speculative use of reason the latter is really the whole aim, and approaching a concept that will, however, never be reached in execution, is the same as simply lacking that concept, it is said of a concept of this sort that it is only an idea. Thus we might say that the absolute whole of appearances is only an idea, since, because we can never project it in an image, it remains a problem C without any solution. On the contrary, because in the practical use of understandB 385 ing it is only a matter of execution according to rules, an idea of prac­ tical reason can always be actually given in concreto, though only in part; indeed, it is the indispensable condition of every practical use of rea­ son. Its execution is always bounded and defective, but within bounds that cannot be determined, hence always under the influence of the concept of an absolute completeness. Accordingly, the practical idea is aufgegeben a b Object ,- Problem 402 Section II.
 
