Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> judgments, and this representation of Myselfa cannot be used as the predicate of any other thing.
 
 Thus I, as thinking being (soul), am substance.23 Criticism of the first paralogism of pure psychology.
 
 We have shown in the analytical part of the Transcendental Logic that pure categories (and among them also the category of substance) have in themselves no objective significance at all unless an intuition is subA 349 sumed underb them, to the manifold of which they can be applied as functions of synthetic unity. Without that they are merely functions of a judgment without content. Of any thing in general I can say that it is a substance, insofar as I distinguish it from mere predicates and deter­ minations of things. Now in all our thinking the I is the subject, in which thoughts inhere only as determinations, and this I cannot be used as the determination of another thing. Thus everyone must necessarily regard Himself as a substance, but regard his thinking only as accidents of his existence and determinations of his state.
 
 But now what sort of use am I to make of this concept of a sub­ stance?' That I, as a thinking being, endured for myself, that naturally I neither arise nor perish this I can by no means infer, and yet it is for that alone that the concept of the substantiality of my thinking sub­ ject can be useful to me; without that I could very well dispense with it altogether.
 
 So much is lacking for us to be able to infer these properties solely from the pure category of substance, that we must rather ground the persistence of a given object on experience if we would apply to that ob­ ject the empirically usable concept of a substance. But now we have not grounded the present proposition on any experience, but have merely 3 50 inferred [it] from the concept of the relation that all thought has to the A I as the common subject in which it inheres. Nor would we be able to establish such a persistence through any secure observation, even if we supposed one. For the I is, to be sure, in all thoughts; but not the least intuition is bound up with this representation, which would distinguish it from other objects of intuition. Therefore one can, to be sure, per­ ceive that this representation continually recurs with every thought, but a Mir selbst, the capitalization is nonstandard, suggesting that "Mir" is a noun rather than a pronoun; changed to mir selbst in fourth edition. Below capitalizations of "Me," "Myself," "Self," "Himself," etc., will be used to translate similar nonstandard capital­ izations in Kant's German.
 
 b untergelegt; fourth edition: unterlegt, "an intuition underlies them".
 
 , Kant ends this sentence with a period.
 
 d fortdaure 416 Chapter I.
 
