e., is dialectical. For since it teaches us nothing at all about the content of cognition, but only the formal conditions of agreement with the understanding, which are entirely indifferent with regard to the objects, the effrontery of using it as a tool (organon) for an expansion and extension of its infor­ mation,a or at least the pretension of so doing, comes down to nothing but idle chatter, asserting or impeaching whatever one wants with some A62 plausibility.
 
 Such instruction by no means befits the dignity of philosophy. For this reason it would be better to take this designation of "dialectic" as a critique of dialectical illusion, which is counted as part of logic, and in such a way we would here have it be understood.
 
 Tv. B87 On the division of transcendental logic into the transcendental analytic and dialectic.
 
 In a transcendental logic we isolate the understanding (as we did above with sensibility in the transcendental aesthetic), and elevate from our cognition merely the part of our thought that has its origin solely in the understanding. The use of this pure cognition, however, depends on this as its condition: that objects are given to us in intuition, to which it can be applied. For without intuition all of our cognition would lack ob­ jects,b and therefore remain completely empty. The part of transcen­ dental logic, therefore, that expounds the elements of the pure cognition of the understanding and the principlesc without which no object can be thought at all, is the transcendental analytic, and at the same time a logic of truth. For no cognition can contradict it without at the same time losing all content, i.e., all relation to any object,d hence A63 all truth. But because it is very enticing and seductive to make use of these pure cognitions of the understanding and principles by them­ selves, and even beyond all bounds of experience, which however itself alone can give us the matter (objects)' to which those pure concepts of B88 the understanding can be applied, the understanding falls into the danger of making a material use of the merely formal principles! of pure understanding through empty sophistries, and of judging without dis­ tinction about objects that are not given to us, which perhaps indeed a Kenntnisse b Objecten , Principien Object d , Objecte f Principien 199 Doctrine of Elements.
 
