It would seem unfair A746/B774 to decry the latter, who knew how to unite his paradoxical assertion with the aim of religion, and to do injury to a well-meaning man because he could not find his bearings as soon as he left the field of theory and nature. But this favor must likewise be shown to the no less well-intentioned Hume, unblemished in his moral character, who cannot forsake his abstract speculation because he rightly holds that its object lies entirely beyond the boundaries of natural science, in the field of pure ideas.
 
 Now what is to be done, especially in regard to the danger which seems to threaten the common good from this quarter? Nothing is more natural, nothing more equitable than the decision that you have to make. Let these people do what they want; if they exhibit talent, if they exhibit deep and new research, in a word, if only they exhibit rea足 son, then reason always wins. If you grasp at means other than unco足 erced reason, if you cry high treason, if you call together the public, which understands nothing of such subtle refinements, as if they were to put out a fire, then you make yourself ridiculous. For the issue is not what is advantageous or disadvantageous to the common good in these matters, but only how far reason can get in its speculation in abstraction A 747 IB775 from all interest, and whether one can count on such speculation at all or must rather give it up altogether in favor of the practical. Thus instead of charging in with a sword, you should instead watch this conflict peaceably from the safe seat of critique, a conflict which must be exhausting for the combatants but entertaining for you, with an outcome that will certainly be bloodless and advantageous for your insight. For it is quite absurd to expect enlightenment from reason and yet to prescribe to it in advance on which side it must come out. Besides, reason is already so well restrained and held within limits by reason itself that you do not need to call out the guard to put up civil resistance against that party whose worrisome superiority seems dangerous to you. In this dialectic there is no victory about which you would have cause to worry.
 
 Reason also very much needs such a conflict, and it is to be wished that it had been undertaken earlier and with unlimited public permis足 sion. For then a mature critique would have come about all the earlier, at the appearance of which all of this controversy would have had to dis足 appear, since the disputants would have learned insight into the illusion and prejudices that have disunited them.
 
 There is a certain dishonesty a in human nature, which yet in the end, a Unlauterkeit 647 Doctrine of Method.
 
