Pt. II. Div. I. Bk I. Ch. I dicates that the proposition is already bound to the understanding ac­ cording to its laws; the apodictic proposition thinks of the assertoric one as determined through these laws of the understanding itself, and as thus asserting a priori, and in this way expresses logical necessity. Now since everything here is gradually incorporated into the understanding, so that one first judges something problematically, then assumes it as­ sertorically as true, and finally asserts it to be inseparably connected with the understanding, i.e., asserts it as necessary and apodictic, these three functions of modality can also be called so many moments of thinking in general.
 
 BI02 On the Clue to the Discovery of all Pure Concepts of the Understanding Third Section <§ IO.> On the pure concepts of the understanding or categories.
 
 As has already been frequently said, general logic abstracts from all con­ tent of cognition, and expects that representations will be given to it from elsewhere, wherever this may be, in order for it to transform them into concepts analytically. Transcendental logic, on the contrary, has a manifold of sensibility that lies before it a priori, which the transcenA 77 dental aesthetic has offered to it, in order to provide the pure concepts of the understanding with a matter, without which they would be with­ out any content, thus completely empty. Now space and time contain a manifold of pure a priori intuition, but belong nevertheless among the conditions of the receptivity of our mind, under which alone it can re­ ceive representations of objects, and thus they must always also affect the concept of these objects. Only the spontaneity of our thought re­ quires that this manifold first be gone through, taken up, and combined in a certain way in order for a cognition to be made out of it. I call this action synthesis.
 
 I03 By synthesis in the most general sense, however, I understanda the E action of putting different representations together with each other and comprehending their manifoldness in one cognition. Such a synthesis is pure if the manifold is given not empirically but a priori (as is that in space and time). Prior to all analysis of our representations these must first be given, and no concepts can arise analytically as far as the COlla In his copy of the first edition, Kant changes this sentence to this point to "1 under­ stand by synthesis, however, the action through which synthetic judgments come to be, in the general sense, . . ." (E XXXIX, p. 23; 23'45). Kant also adds the words "Combination, composition, and nexus" (E XL, p. 24)· 210 Section III.
 
