The regulative principle of pure reason principle of reason, whereas the principle of the absolute totality of the a series of conditions, as given in itself in the objectb (in the appearances), would be a constitutive cosmological principle, the nullity of which c I have tried to show through just this distinction, thereby prevent­ ing -what would otherwise unavoidably happen (through a transcen­ dental subreption) -the ascription of objective reality to an idea that merely serves as a rule.
 
 Now in order to determine the sense of this rule of pure reason appropriately, it must first be noted that it cannot say what the objectd A 5 IOI B 538 is, but only how the empirical regress is to be instituted so as to attain to the complete concept of the object.' For if the former were the case, then it would be a constitutive principle! the likes of which is never possible on the basis of pure reason. Thus with it one can by no means have the intention to say that the series of conditions for a given conditioned is in itself finite or infinite; for in that way a mere idea of the absolute totality, which is produced only in the idea itself, would think an object that cannot be given in any experience, since an objective reality independent of empirical synthesis would be ascribed to a series of appearances. Thus the idea of reason will only prescribe a rule to the regressive synthesis in the series, a rule in accordance with which it proceeds from the conditioned, by means of all the conditions subordinated one to another, to the unconditioned, even though the latter will never be reached. For the absolutely unconditioned is not encountered in experience at all.
 
 To this end, the first thing to do is to determine precisely the syn­ thesis of a series insofar as it is never complete. With this aim one usu­ ally employs two expressions, which are supposed to draw a distinction, even though one does not know how to specify the ground of this dis­ tinction correctly. Mathematicians speak solely of a progressus in infinitum. g But those who study concepts (philosophers) want, in place of A 5 I I I B 539 this, to make the expression progressus in indefinitum h the only valid one.75 Without stopping to examine the reservations to which this distinction has led, or to test whether their use has been good or fruitless, I will seek to determine these concepts precisely in relation to my own intentions.
 
 One can rightly say of a straight line that it could be extended to ina Princip Object b Princip , Object d , Object f Principium progress to infinity g indefinite progress h 521 Doctrine of Elements.
 
