Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II should note well that I here have in mind the principles of mathematB 202 ics just as little in the one case as the principles of general (physical) dy­ namics in the other, but rather have in mind only the principles of the pure understanding in relationo to the inner sense (without distinction of the representations which are given therein), through which the for­ mer principles all acquire their possibility. I am therefore titling them more with respect to their application than on account of their content, and I now proceed to the consideration of them in the same order in which they are represented in the table.
 
 1.
 
 <Axioms of Intuition.>b [In the first edition:] Principle of pure understanding: All appearances are, as regards their intuition, extensive magnitudes.
 
 [In the second edition:] <Their principle is: All intuitions are extensive magnitudes.>c,d,6r e<Proof All appearances contain, as regards their form, an intuition in space and time, which grounds all of them a priori. They cannot be apprethesis of a manifold of what does not necessarily belong to each other, as e.g., the two triangles into which a square is divided by the diagonal do not of themselves necessarily belong to each other, and of such a sort is the synthesis of the homogeneous in everything that can be considered mathematically (which synthesis can be further divided into that of aggregation and of coali­ tion, of which the first is directed to extensive magnitudes and the second to intensive magnitudes). The second combination (nexus) is the synthesis of that which is manifold insofar as they necessarily belong to one another, as e.g., an accident belongs to some substance, or the effect to the cause -thus also as represented as unhomogeneous but yet as combined priori, which combina­ a tion, since it is not arbitrary, I call dynamical, since it concerns the combina­ tion of the existence of the manifold (which can again be divided into the B202 physical combination of the appearances with one another and the meta­ physical, their combination in the priori faculty of cognition).> a a Verhiiltnis In the first edition: "On the Axioms of Intuition." b , Groflen. In this section, Kant uses the word "Grofte" as the German equivalent for both quantitas and quantum, as is shown by his parenthetical inclusion of the Latin words.
 
 According to C. C. E. Schmid's Wo'rterbuch zum leichteren Gebrauch der Kantischen Schriften (J ena: Crocker, '798), Grofte as quantitas refers primarily to the pure concept 286 Section III.
 
