In this way, we hope to make it easy for the reader to remain clearly aware of the differences be­ tween the two editions without treating them as if they were two unre­ lated works, as Erdmann's approach does.
 
 Our view that we should avoid imposing our own interpretation of the Critique as much as possible has not meant that we should avoid referring our readers to materials that might help them in the inter­ pretation of the text. Instead, we have provided two sorts of references that may help in the interpretation of the text. The first sort of mate­ rial is Kant's notes in his own copy of the first edition of the Critique, which were published by Benno Erdmann in I 88 I (Benno Erdmann; Nachtrage zu Kants Kritik der reinen Vernunft [Kiel: Lipsius & Tischer, 88 I J). These notes range from mere cross-outs to changes in words I or phrases to extensive comments or paragraphs. Schmidt and Kemp Smith noted those places where Kant had changed a couple of words, but omitted all the rest. We have presented all of the material that Erdmann recorded in our footnotes, following Erdmann's description of the location of the notes as closely as possible. In this way, the reader can have the experience not merely of reading and interpreting Kant's original text of the first edition but that of reading Kant's own copy of that edition. (No annotated copy of the second edition has ever been known to exist.) These notes are cited thus: "E" (for Erd­ mann), followed by Erdmann's roman numeral and the page number in his edition; then the volume and page number of their appearance in the Akademie edition. Second, we have provided cross-references to many of Kant's notes in the Handschriftliche Nachlafl ("hand-written re­ mains") transcribed in volumes I4 through 23 of the Akademie edition.
 
 Obviously we could not index all of these notes, but have tried to give references to those that throw light on specific passages in the Critique, especially those that seem to be either preliminary drafts or subsequent reworkings of specific passages. Since this material does not appear in the original editions of the Critique or Kant's own copy of the first edition, we have not referred to it, let alone reproduced it, in our footnotes on Kant's pages, but have put the references to it in our endnotes.
 
 Our translation has not been produced from any single German edi­ tion. As do most contemporary scholars, we began by working from the edition of the Critique by Raymund Schmidt in the Philosophische Bibliothek. As we worked on the translation, however, we realized that Schmidt's edition is the least conservative twentieth-century edition of Kant's text, not only modernizing spelling and punctuation more than others do but also accepting the largest number of editorial emenda­ tions to the text. We thus began to check our translation against the 75 Introduction three other main twentieth-century editions of the text, namely those of Erdmann in the Akademie edition, of Wilhelm Weischedel in the Insel Verlag, subsequently Suhrkamp Verlag Studienausgabe (1956), and of Ingeborg Heidemann in the Reclam Studienausgabe (1966).
 
