Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III idea is therefore grounded entirely respective to the use our reason makes of it in the world. But if we wanted to grant it absolute objec­ tive validity, then we would be forgetting that we are thinking solely of a being in the idea; and, since we began with a ground which is not de­ terminable at all through considering the world, we would thereby place ourselves in no position to apply this principlea suitably to the empirical use of reason.
 
 But (one will ask further) in such a way can I still make use of the concept and the presupposition of a highest being in rationally consid­ ering the world? Yes; that was really why things were grounded on this idea of reason. Yet may I regard purpose-likeb orderings as intentions, A6991 B 727 by deriving them from the divine will, though of course mediately through predispositions toward them set up in the world? Yes, you can do that too, but only in such a way that it is all the same to you whether someone says that the divine wisdom has ordered everything to its supreme ends, or that the idea of the highest wisdom is a regulative one in the investigation of nature and a principle of the systematic and purposive unity thereof in accordance with universal laws, even where we are not aware of it; i.e., where you do perceive purposive unity, it must not matter at all whether you say, "God has wisely willed it so" or "Nature has wisely so ordered it." For the greatest systematic and pur­ posive unity, which your reason demands as a regulative principled to ground all investigation of nature, was precisely what justified you in making the idea of a highest intelligence the ground as a schema of the regulative principle;e and however much purposiveness you encounter in the world in accordance with that principle! so much confirmation do you have for the rightness of your idea; since, however, the prin­ cipleg you are thinking of has no other aim than to seek out the neces­ sary and greatest possible unity of nature, we will have the idea of a highest being to thank for this so far as we reach it, but we can never get around the universal laws of nature, so as to regard this purposiveA 7001 B 728 ness of nature as contingent and hyperphysical in its origin, without contradicting ourselves, since it was only by taking these laws as our aim that things were grounded on the idea; for we were not justified in as­ suming a being above nature with the properties we are thinking of, but only in grounding things on the idea of this being in order to regard apPrincip n zweckdhnliche b , Princip d Princip , Princip f Princip Princip g 620 Section VII.
 
