A transcendental paralogism, however, has a transcendental ground for inferring falsely due to its form.2I Thus a fallacy of this kind will have its ground in the nature of human reason, and will bring with it an unavoidable, although not in­ soluble, illusion.
 
 Now we come to a concept that was not catalogued above in the gen­ eral list of transcendental concepts, and nevertheless must be assigned to it, yet without altering that table in the least and declaring it defec­ tive. This is the concept -or rather, if one prefers, the judgment -I think. But one will easily see that this concept is the vehicle of all con­ cepts whatever, and hence also of transcendental concepts, and is thus always comprehended among them, and hence is likewise transcenden­ tal, but that it can have no special title, because it serves only to introa Note added to Kant's copy of the first edition: "The question is whether, if 1 cognize a transcendental object [Object] (I) througb pure categories, without otherwise having any properties of it, 1 thereby actually cognize it or have only a negative concept of it.
 
 Further, whether these categories could be cognized through perception regarding this object, or whether they lie a priori in thinking in general. Third, whether through these cognition would be extended." (E CLN, p. 47; 23:38; cf. 59z1B 620) A "A paralogism is a syllogism that is false in forma. Now it also belongs to the form that the major is a universal proposition, and also that the premises are not tautologi­ cal. But here the major is a singular judgment and contains a tautology in itself.
 
 Consequently, the syllogism has only two termini." (E CLV; p. 47, 23:38) "The paralogisms begin from existence as modality: 'I am'; proceed to relation [Relation] in order to determine existence not in time, which would be empirical.
 
 Therefore: 1 am as substance, simple as to quality, identical in my duration. The time of my duration is thus the time of my own self-determination." (E CLVI, p. 47; 2 Fl8-9; cf. 4I8) B "The proposition 'a exists,' is a simple substance, always the same, must in other cases be cognized through marks: 1. of perception, at least in time; through proper­ 2.
 
 ties that are persisting; 3· through demonstration of their [parts] in space and time; 4.
 
 through perception. Here I, as it were, [have sensation of] the categories or know them a priori." (E CLVII, p. 48; 23'39) 411 Doctrine of Elements.
 
