Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III being having the highest perfection, and its nature as necessarily exis­ tent, merely on the basis of its concept, were it not the world in relation to which alone this suppositiona can be necessary? And that shows clearly that the idea of that being, like all speculative ideas, means noth­ ing more than that reason bids us consider every connection in the world according to principlesb of a systematic unity, hence as if they had all arisen from one single all-encompassing being, as supreme and all-sufficient cause. From this it is clear that here reason could aim at nothing except its own formal rule in the extension of its empirical use, but never at an extension of it beyond all the boundaries of empiri­ cal use, consequently, that under this idea there does not lie hidden any constitutive principle< for its use directed to possible experience.
 
 This highest formal unity that alone rests on concepts of reason is the purposive unity of things; and the speculative interest of reason makes it necessary to regard every ordinance in the world as if it had sprouted from the intention of a highest reason. Such a principle,d A687/ B 7I5 namely, opens up for our reason, as applied to the field of experience, entirely new prospects for connecting up things in the world in accor­ dance with teleological laws, and thereby attaining to the greatest systematic unity among them. The presupposition of a supreme intel­ ligence, as the sole cause of the world-whole, but of course merely in the idea, can therefore always be useful to reason and never harmful to it. Thus if in regard to the shape of the earth (which is round but e somewhat flattened), * we presuppose the mountains, seas, etc., to be wise intentions of a world-author, then in this way we can make a lot of discoveries. As long as we keep to this presupposition as a regulative principle,! then even error cannot do us any harm. For then nothing * The advantage created by the earth's spherical shape is well known; but few know that its flattening as a spheroid is the only thing preventing the eleva­ tions on the dry land, or even smaller mountains perhaps thrown up by earth­ quakes, from continuously displacing the earth's axis and perhaps appreciably so in not too long a time; this might happen if the swelling out of the earth at the equator were not such a mighty mountain that the centrifugal forceg of every other mountain can never noticeably bring it out of place in regard to its axis. And yet without scruples we explain this wise arrangement from the equilibrium of the formerly fluid mass of the earth.
 
 a Supposition b Principien , Princip Princip d , Figur f Princip Schwung g 614 Section VII.
 
