Ch. I. Sec. II forth by the nature of this reason, and they must therefore have their good vocationO and aim, which one must not cast to the wind. Why has providence set many objects, although they are intimately connected A 744/ B 772 with our highest interest, so high that it is barely granted to us to en­ counter them in an indistinct perception, doubted even by ourselves, through which our searching glance is more enticed than satisfied?
 
 Whether it is useful to venture determinate answers with regard to such views is at least doubtful, and perhaps even dangerous. But it is always and without any doubt useful to grant reason full freedom in its search as well as its examination, so that it can take care of its own interest without hindrance, which is promoted just as much by setting limits to its insights as by expanding them, and which always suffers if foreign hands intervene to lead it forcibly to aims contrary to its natural path.
 
 Thus let your opponent speak only reason, and fight him solely with weapons of reason. For the rest, do not worry about the good causeb (of practical reason), for that never comes into play in a merely speculative dispute. In this case the dispute reveals nothing but a certain antinomy of reason, which, since it depends upon its nature, must necessarily be heard and examined. The conflict cultivates reason by the consideration of its object on both sides, and corrects its judgment by thus limiting it.
 
 What is here in dispute is not the marterC but the tone. For enough re­ mains left to you to speak the language, justified by the sharpest reason, A 745/ B 773 of a firm helief, even though you must surrender that of knowledge.
 
 If one were to ask the cool-headed David Hume, especially consti­ tuted for equilibrium of judgment, "What moved you to undermine, by means of reservations brooded on with so much effort, the persuasion, so comforting and useful for humans, that the insight of their reason is adequate for the assertion and determinate concept of a highest being?",rs he would answer: "Nothing but the intention of bringing reason further in its self-knowledge,d and at the same time a certain aversion to the coercion which one would exercise against reason by treating it as great and yet at the same time preventing a free confession of its weaknesses, which become obvious to it in the examination of it­ self." But if, on the contrary, you were to ask Priestley, 16 who is devoted only to the principles of the empirical use of reason and is disinclined to all transcendental speculation, what sort of motives he had for tear­ ing down two such pillars of all religion as the freedom and immortal­ ity of our soul (the hope of a future life is according to him merely the expectation of a miracle of resurrection), he, who is himself a pious and Bestimmung a Sache, used in this sense throughout the remainder of this section.
 
 b , Sache Selbsterkenntnis d 646 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use eager teacher of religion, would not be able to answer anything other than: the interest of reason, which is diminished by the exemption of certain objects from the laws of material nature, which are the only ones that we can know and determine with precision.
 
