Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <B> that relationa that constitutes the judgment. However, that the I that I think can always be considered as subject, and as something that does not depend on thinking merely as a predicate, must be valid -this is an apodictic and even an identical proposition; but it does not signify that I as objectb am for myself a self-subsisting being or substance.
 
 The latter goes very far, and hence demands data that are not encoun­ tered at all in thinking, and thus (insofar as I consider merely what thinks as such) perhaps demands more than I will ever encounter any­ where (in it).
 
 2) That the I of apperception, consequently in every thought, is a single thing that cannot be resolved into a plurality of subjects, and hence a logically simple subject, lies already in the concept of thinking, B408 and is consequently an analytic proposition; but that does not signify that the thinking I is a simple substance, which would be a synthetic proposition. The concept of substance is always related to intuitions, which in me cannot be other than sensible, and hence must lie wholly outside the field of understanding and its thinking, which is all that is really under discussion here if it is said that the I in thinking is simple.
 
 It would also be miraculous if what otherwise requires so much care in order to distinguish what is the substance and what is displayed in intu­ ition, and even more to tell whether this substance could be simple (as in the parts of matter), were given here so directly, in the poorest rep­ resentation of all, as if by a revelation.
 
 3) The proposition of the identity of myself in everything manifold of which I am conscious is equally one lying in the concepts themselves, and hence an analytic proposition; but this identity of the subject, of which I can become conscious in every representation, does not con­ cern the intuition of it, through which it is given as object,' and thus cannot signify the identity of the person, by which would be understood the consciousness of the identity of its own substance as a thinking being in all changes of state; in order to prove that what would be de­ manded is not a mere analysis of the proposition "I think," but rather B 409 various synthetic judgments grounded on the given intuition.
 
 4) [That] I distinguish my own existence, that of a thinking being, from other things outside me (to which my body also belongs) -this is equally an analytic proposition; for other things are those that I think of as distinguished from me. But I do not thereby know at all whether this consciousness of myself would even be possible without things outside me through which representations are given to me, and thus whether I could exist merely as a thinking being (without being a human being).
 
 Verhdltnis a b Object , Object 446 On the paralogisms of pure reason <B> Thus through the analysis of the consciousness of myself in thinking in general not the least is won in regard to the cognition of myself as object.
 
