This is the question with which we will now concern our足 selves, though only provisionally. In fact the manifold of rules and the unity of principles is a demand of reason, in order to bring the under足 standing into thoroughgoing connection with itself, just as the under足 standing brings the manifold of intuition under concepts and through them into connection.1O Yet such a principleb does not prescribe any law A 306 to objects/ and does not contain the ground of the possibility of cognizing and determining them as such in general, but rather is merely a subjective law of economy for the provision of our understanding, so that through comparison of its concepts it may bring their universal use to the smallest number, without justifYing us in demanding of objects themselves any such unanimity as might make things easier for our un- B 363 derstanding or help it extend itself, and so give objective validity to its maxims as well. In a word, the question is: Does reason in itself, i.e., pure reason, contain priori synthetic principlesd and rules, and in what a might such principles consist?
 
 The formal and logical procedure of reason in syllogisms already gives us sufficient guidance as to where the ground of its transcenden足 tal principle' will rest in synthetic cognition through pure reason.
 
 First, the syllogism does not deal with intuitions, in order to bring them under rules (as does the understanding with its categories), but rather deals with concepts and judgments. If, therefore, pure reason also deals with objects, yet it has no immediate reference to them and their intuition, but deals only with the understanding and its judgments, which apply directly to the senses and their intuition, in order to deter- A 307 mine their object. The unity of reason is therefore not the unity of a possible experience, but is essentially different from that, which is the unity of understanding. That everything which happens must have a cause is not a principle! cognized and prescribed through reason at all.
 
 It makes the unity of experience possible and borrows nothing from reason, which could not have imposed any such synthetic unity from B 364 mere concepts without this reference to possible experience.
 
 Second, reason in its logical use seeks the universal condition of its a subalternes Grundsatz b , Objecte d Grundsiitze , Principium f Grundsatz 391 Doctrine of Elements.
 
