Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> is not indeed appearance (let alone mere illusion), but the determinaB 158 tion of my existence*>44 can only occur in correspondence with the form of inner sense, according to the particular way in which the manifold that I combine is given in inner intuition, and I therefore have no cog­ nition of myself as I am, but only as I appear to myself. The con­ sciousness of oneself is therefore far from being a cognition of oneself, regardless of all the categories that constitute the thinking of an objeCt" in general through combination of the manifold in an apperception.
 
 Just as for the cognition of an objectb distinct from me I also need an intuition in addition to the thinking of an objectC in general (in the cat­ egory), through which I determine that general concept, so for the cog­ nition of myself I also need in addition to the consciousness, or in addition to that which I think myself, an intuition of the manifold in me, through which I determine this thought; and I exist as an intelli­ gence that is merely conscious of its faculty for combination but which, B 159 in regard to the manifold that it is to combine, is subject to a limiting condition that it calls inner sense, which can make that combination in­ tuitable only in accordance with temporal relationsd that lie entirely outside of the concepts of the understanding proper, and that can there­ fore still cognize itself merely as it appears to itself with regard to an in­ tuition (which is not intellectual and capable of being given through the understanding itself), not as it would cognize itself if its intuition were intellectual.
 
 B 157 * The I think expresses the act" of determining my existence. The existence is thereby already given, but the way in which I am to determine it, i.e., the man­ ifold that I am to posit in myself as belonging to it, is not yet thereby given.
 
 For that self-intuition is required, which is grounded in an priori given form, a i.e., time, which is sensible and belongs to the receptivity of the determinable.
 
 B 158 Now I do not have yet another self-intuition, which would give the deter­ mining in me, of the spontaneity of which alone I am conscious, even before the actf of determination, in the same way as time gives that which is to be determined, thus I cannot determine my existence as that of a self-active being, rather I merely represent the spontaneity of my thought, i.e., of the de­ termining, and my existence always remains only sensibly determinable, i.e., determinable as the existence of an appearance. Yet this spontaneity is the rea­ son I call myself an intelligence.
 
 a Object b Objects , Object Zeitverhiiltnissen d , Actus fActus 260 Section II.
 
