Critique of all speculative theology which nature gives to our cognition as merely a concealed unity, and to derive them as far as it is able from some fundamental power, when rea­ son is free to admit that it is just as possible that all powers are differ­ ent in kind, and that its derivation of them from a systematic unity is not in conformity with nature? For then reason would proceed directly contrary to its vocation, since it would set as its goal an idea that en­ tirely contradicts the arrangement of nature. Nor can one say that ita has previously gleanedb this unity from the contingent constitution of nature in accordance with its principlesc of reason. For the law of rea­ son to seek unity is necessary, since without it we would have no reason, and without that, no coherentd use of the understanding, and, lacking that, no sufficient mark of empirical truth; thus in regard to the latter we simply have to presuppose the systematic unity of nature as objec­ tively valid and necessary.
 
 We also find this transcendental presupposition hidden in an ad­ mirable way in the principles of the philosophers, although they have not always recognized it or admitted it to themselves. That all the man­ ifoldness of individual things does not exclude the identity of species; that the several species must be treated only as various determinations A6S2/B680 of fewer genera, and the latter of still higher families,' etc.; that therefore a certain systematic unity of all possible empirical concepts must be sought insofar as they can be derived from higher and more general ones: this is a scholastic rule or logical principle! without which there could be no use of reason, because we can infer from the universal to the particular only on the ground of the universal properties of things under which the particular properties stand.
 
 But that such unanimity is to be encountered even in nature is some­ thing the philosophers presuppose in the familiar scholastic rule that one should not multiply beginnings (principles)': without necessity (entia praeter necessitatem non esse multiplicanda).h It is thereby said that the na­ ture of things themselves offers material for the unity of reason, and the apparently infinite variety should not restrain us from conjecturing be­ hind it a unity of fundamental properties, from which their manifold­ ness can be derived only through repeated determination. This unity, although it is a mere idea, has been pursued so eagerly in all ages that more often there has been cause to moderate than to encourage the dea I. .e., reason abgenommen b , Principien zusammenhangende d , Geschlechter f Princip Principien g h Entities are not to be multiplied without necessity.,,6 595 Doctrine of Elements.
 
