Ch. 1. Sec. N A 792/ B 820 In mathematics this subreption is impossible; hence apagogic proof has its proper place there. In natural science, since everything there is grounded on empirical intuitions, such false pretenses can frequently be guarded against through the comparison of many observations; but this kind of proof itself is for the most part unimportant in this area. The transcendental attempts of pure reason, however, are all conducted within the real medium of dialectical illusion, i.e., the subjective which offers itself to or even forces itself upon reason as objective in its premises. Now here it simply cannot be allowed that assertions of synthetic propositions be justified by the refutation of their opposites.
 
 For either this refutation is nothing other than the mere representation of the conflict of the opposed opinion with the subjective conditions of comprehensibility through our reason, which does nothing by way of rejecting the thing itself (just as, e.g., unconditional necessity in the ex­ istence of a being cannot be conceived by us at all, and hence every speculative proof of a necessary highest being is therefore rightfully op­ posed subjectively, but the possibility of such an original being in it­ self is not rightfully opposed), or else both, the affirmative as well as the negative part, taken in by transcendental illusion, have as their ground A 793/ B 82 I an impossible concept of the object, and then the rule holds that non entis nulla sunt predicata,a i.e., both what one asserts affirmatively as well as what one asserts negatively of the object are incorrect, and one can­ not arrive at cognition of the truth apagogically through the refutation of its opposite. So, for example, if it is presupposed that the sensible world is given in its totality in itself, then it is false that it must be ei­ ther infinite in space orb finite and bounded, just because both of these are false. For appearances (as mere representations), which would yet be given in themselves (as objects), are something impossible, and the in­ finity of this imagined whole would, to be sure, be unconditioned, but would nevertheless (since everything in appearances is conditioned) contradict the unconditioned determination of magnitude that is pre­ supposed in the concept.
 
 Apagogic proof is also the real deception with which the admirers of the thoroughness of our dogmatic sophists have always been held off; it is the champion, as it were, who would prove the honor and the indis­ putable right of his chosen party by his pledge to take on anyone who would doubt it, although through such boasting nothing is settled about the real issue but only the relative strength of the opponents, and in­ deed only that of the one who is on the attack. The observers, seeing A 794/ B 822 that each is in turn first victor then vanquished, often take the occasion a Nothing is to be predicated of any non-being.
 
 b The "or" is emphasized in the first edition but not in the second.
 
 , Objecte 670 The discipline of pure reason in proofs to have skeptical doubts about the objecta of the dispute itself.
 
