Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II representations through which they affect us) is entirely beyond our cognitive sphere. Now although the appearances are not things in themselves, and nevertheless are the only thing that can be given to us for cognition, I still have to show what sort of combination in time per­ tains to the manifold in the appearances itself even though the repre­ sentation of it in apprehension is always successive. Thus, e.g., the apprehension of the manifold in the appearance of a house that stands before me is successive. Now the question is whether the manifold of this house itself is also successive, which certainly no one will concede.
 
 Now, however, as soon as I raise my concept of an object to transcenB 236 dental significance, the house is not a thing in itself at all but only an AI91 appearance, i.e., a representation, the transcendental object of which is unknown; therefore what do I understand by the question, how the manifold may be combined in the appearance itself (which is yet noth­ ing in itself)? Here that which lies in the successive apprehension is considered as representation, but the appearance that is given to me, in spite of the fact that it is nothing more than a sum of these representa­ tions, is considered as their object, with which my concept, which I draw from the representations of apprehension, is to agree. One quickly sees that, since the agreement of cognition with the object" is truth, only the formal conditions of empirical truth can be inquired after here, and appearance, in contradistinction to the representations of appre­ hension, can thereby only be represented as the object' that is distinct from them if it stands under a rule that distinguishes it from every other apprehension, and makes one way of combining the manifold necessary.
 
 That in the appearance which contains the condition of this necessary rule of apprehension is the object." Now let us proceed to our problem. That something happens, i.e., that something or a state comes to be that previously was not, cannot B 237 be empirically perceived except where an appearance precedes that does not contain this state in itself; for a reality that would follow on an A 192 empty time, thus an arising not preceded by any state of things, can be apprehended just as little as empty time itself. Every apprehension of an occurrence is therefore a perception that follows another one. Since this is the case in all synthesis of apprehension, however, as I have shown above in the case of the appearance of a house, the apprehension of an occurrence is not yet thereby distinguished from any other. Yet I also note that, if in the case of an appearance that contains a happening I call the preceding state of perception A and the following one B, then B can only follow A in apprehension, but the perception A cannot fola Object Object b , Object 306 Section III.
 
