Systematic representation of all synthetic principles in time for each other, and make this determination in the temporal order necessary, i.e., that which follows or happens must succeed that which was contained in the previous state in accordance with a general rule, from which arises a series of appearances, in which by means of the understanding the very same order and constant connectiona in the se­ ries of possible perceptions is produced and made necessary as would be encountered priori in the form of inner experience (time), in which all a perceptions would have to have their place.
 
 That something happens, therefore, is a perception that belongs to a possible experience, which becomes actual if! regard the position of the appearance as determined in time, thus if I regard it as an objectb that can always be found in the connectionc of perceptions in accordance with a rule. This rule for determining something with respect to its B 246 temporal sequence, however, is that in what precedes, the condition is to be encountered under which the occurrence always (i.e., necessarily) follows. Thus the principle of sufficient reasond is the ground of possi- AWl ble experience, namely the objective cognition of appearances with regard to their relation in the successive seriese of time.
 
 The ground of proof of this proposition, however, rests solely on the following moments. To all empirical cognition there belongs the syn­ thesis of the manifold through the imagination, which is always succes­ sive; i.e., the representations always follow each other in it. But the order of the sequence (what must precede and what must follow) is not determined in the imagination at all, and the series of successive! rep­ resentations can be taken backwards just as well as forwards. But if this synthesis is a synthesis of apprehension (of the manifold of a given ap­ pearance), then the order in the objectg is determined, or, to speak more precisely, there is therein an order of the successive synthesis that de­ termines an object,h in accordance with which something would neces­ sarily have to precede and, if this is posited, the other would necessarily have to follow. If, therefore, my perception is to contain the cognition of an occurrence, namely that something actually happens, then it must be an empirical judgment in which one thinks that the sequence is de­ termined, i.e., that it presupposes another appearance in time which it follows necessarily or in accordance with a rule. Contrariwise, ifI were B 247 to posit that which precedes and the occurrence did not follow it necZusammenhang a Object b , Zusammenhang der Satz vom zureichenden Grunde d , Reihenfolge f Following Erdmann, reading der einander fllgender instead of der einen derf llgenden.
 
 Object g Object h 311 Doctrine of Elements.
 
