Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II cept as already divided up, and a multiplicity of parts, determinate in itself but infinite, is encountered prior to every regress in the divi­ sion -through which one contradicts oneself, since this infinite devel­ opment is regarded as a series that is never to be completed (as infinite) and yet as one that is completed when it is taken together. The infinite division indicates only the appearance as quantum continuum,a and is in­ separable from the filling of space; for the ground of its infinite divisi­ bility lies precisely in that. But as soon as something is assumed as a quantum discretum,b the multiplicity of units in it is determined; hence it is always equal to a number. Thus only experience can settle how far the organization in an articulated body may go; and even if it was certain to attain to no inorganic parts, such parts must nevertheless at least lie within a possible experience. But how far the transcendental division of appearance in general may reach is not a matter of experience at all, an but it is rather a principle< of reason never to take the empirical regress in the composition of what is extended, in conformity with the nature of this appearance, to be absolutely complete.
 
 * * * Concluding remark on the resolution of the mathematical-transcendental ideas, and preamble to the resolution of the 8 dynamic-transcendental ideas.7 When we represented the antinomy of pure reason in a table through all the transcendental ideas, where we showed the ground of this con­ flict and the only means of removing it -which consisted in declaring both of the opposed assertions to be false -we in all cases represented the conditions for their conditioned as belonging to relations of space and time, which is the usual presupposition of common human under­ standing, on which, therefore, the conflict entirely rested. In this re­ spect all dialectical representations of totality in the series of conditions for a given conditioned were of the same kindd throughout. There was always a series, in which the condition was connected with the condi­ tioned as a member of the series, and thereby was homogeneous, e since the regress is never thought of as completed, or else, if this were to happen, a member conditioned in itself would have to be falsely asa continuous quantity discrete quantity b ( Principium gleicher Art d von , gleichartig 530 Section IX.
 
