Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II essarily, then I would have to hold it to be only a subjective play of my A202 imaginings, and if I still represented something objective by it I would have to call it a mere dream. Thus the relation of appearances (as pos­ sible perceptions) in accordance with which the existence of that which succeeds (what happens) is determined in time necessarily and in ac­ cordance with a rule by something that precedes it, consequently the relation of cause to effect, is the condition of the objective validity of our empirical judgments with regard to the series of perceptions, thus of their empirical truth, and therefore of experience. Hence the princi­ ple of the causal relation in the sequence of appearances is valid for all objects of experience (under the conditions of succession), since it is it­ self the ground of the possibility of such an experience.
 
 Here, however, there is a reservation that must be raised. The prin­ ciple of causal connection among appearances is, in our formula, lim­ ited to the successiona of them, although in the use of this principle it turns out that it also applies to their accompaniment,b and cause and ef­ fect can be simultaneous. E.g., there is warmth in a room that is not to B 248 be encountered in the outside air. I look around for the cause, and find a heated stove. Now this, as the cause, is simultaneous with its effect, the warmth of the chamber; thus here there is no succession' in time between cause and effect, rather they are simultaneous, yet the law still A203 holds. The majority of efficient causesd in nature are simultaneous with their effects, and the temporal sequence of the latter is occasioned only by the fact that the cause cannot achieve its entire effect in one instant.
 
 But in the instant in which the effect first arises, it is always simultane­ ous with the causality of its cause, since if the cause had ceased to be an instant before then the effect would never have arisen. Here one must note that it is the order of time and not its lapse that is taken account of; the relation remains even if no time has elapsed. The time between the causality of the cause and its immediate effect can be vanishing (they can therefore be simultaneous), but the temporal relation of the one to the other still remains determinable. If I consider a ball that lies on a stuffed pillow and makes a dent in it as a cause, it is simultaneous with its effect. Yet I still distinguish the two by means of the temporal relation of the dynamical connection. For if I lay the ball on the pillow the dent follows its previously smooth shape; but if (for whatever reaB 249 son) the pillow has a dent, a leaden ball does not follow it.
 
 The temporal sequence is accordingly the only empirical criterion of the effect in relatione to the causality of the cause that precedes it. The a Reihenfolge Begleitung, here meaning simultaneous occurrence, as earlier at AI83/B226.
 
 b Reihenfolge , Following the fourth edition, reading "Ursachen" instead of "Ursache." d , Beziehung 312 Section III.
 
