Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II It should be noted that here we have not been trying to establish the A 5 58/ B 586 reality of freedom, as a faculty that contains the causes of appearance in our world of sense. For apart from the fact that this would not have been any sort of transcendental investigation having to do merely with concepts, it could not have succeeded, since from experience we can never infer something that does not have to be thought in accord with the laws of experience. Further, we have not even tried to prove the possibility of freedom; for this would not have succeeded either, be­ cause from mere concepts priori we cannot cognize anything about the a possibility of any real ground or any causality. Freedom is treated here only as a transcendental idea, through which reason thinks of the series of conditions in appearance starting absolutely through what is sensibly unconditioned, but thereby involves itself in an antinomy following its own laws, which it prescribes for the empirical use of the understand­ ing. [To show] that this antinomy rests on a mere illusion, and that na­ ture at least does not conflict with causality through freedom -that was the one single thing we could accomplish, and it alone was our sole concern.a IV: Solution of the cosmological idea of the totality of dependence of appearances regarding their existence in general.
 
 In the preceding number we considered the changes in the world of sense in their dynamical series, where each is subordinated to another as its cause. Now this series of states serves only to lead us to an exis­ tence that could be the highest condition of everything alterable, namely to the necessary being. Here we deal not with unconditioned causality, but with the unconditioned existence of the substance itself.
 
 Thus the series we have before us is really only a series of concepts and not of intuitions, insofar as one intuition is the condition of another.
 
 One easily sees, however, that since everything in the sum total of ap­ pearances is alterable, hence conditioned in its existence, there could not be any unconditioned member anywhere in the series of dependent existences whose existence would be absolutely necessary; and hence that if appearances were things in themselves, and so just for this rea­ son their condition always belong to one and the same series of intuA56o/B 588 itions, then a necessary being could never occur as a condition of the existence of appearances in the world of sense.
 
 But the dynamic regress has in itself this peculiar feature, dis tina Kant notes: "Morality is that which, if it is correct, positively presupposes freedom.
 
 "If the former is true, then freedom is proved." (E CLXXVI, p. 52; 23 :42) 546 Section IX.
 
