Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> intuition, and thus of time, so time is an priori condition of all ap­ a pearance in general, and indeed the immediate condition of the inner intuition (of our souls), and thereby also the mediate condition of outer B 5 I appearances. If I can say a priori: all outer appearances are in space and determined priori according to the relations of space, so from the a principlea of inner sense I can say entirely generally: all appearances in general, i.e., all objects of the senses, are in time, and necessarily stand in relations of time.
 
 If we abstract from our way of internally intuiting ourselves and by means of this intuition also dealing with all outer intuitions in the power of representation, and thus take objects as they may be in them­ selves, then time is nothing. It is only of objective validity in regard to appearances, because these are already things that we take as objects of A 3 5 our senses; but it is no longer objective if one abstracts from the sen­ sibility of our intuition, thus from that kind of representation that is pe­ culiar to us, and speaks of things in general. Time is therefore merely a subjective condition of our (human) intuition (which is always sensi­ ble, i.e., insofar as we are affected by objects), and in itself, outside the subject, is nothing. Nonetheless it is necessarily objective in regard to all appearances, thus also in regard to all things that can come before us in experience. We cannot say all things are in time, because with the B 52 concept of things in general abstraction is made from every kind of in­ tuition of them, but this is the real condition under which time belongs to the representation of objects. Now if the condition is added to the concept, and the principle says that all things as appearances (objects of sensible intuition) are in time, then the principle has its sound objective correctness and priori universality.
 
 a Our assertions accordingly teach the empirical reality of time, i.e., objective validity in regard to all objects that may ever be given to our senses. And since our intuition is always sensible, no object can ever be given to us in experience that would not belong under the condition of time. But, on the contrary, we dispute all claim of time to absolute re­ ality, namely where it would attach to things absolutely as a condition A 36 or property even without regard to the form of our sensible intuition.
 
 Such properties, which pertain to things in themselves, can never be given to us through the senses. In this therefore consists the transcen­ dental ideality of time, according to which it is nothing at all if one ab­ stracts from the subjective conditions of sensible intuition, and cannot be counted as either subsisting or inhering in the objects in themselves (without their relation to our intuition). Yet this ideality is to be comB 53 pared with the subreptions of sensation just as little as that of space is, because in that case one presupposes that the appearance itself, in which Princip « 164 Section II.
 
