But since something is contained in the intuition that does not lie at all in the mere concept of a thing in general, and this yields the substratum that cannot be cog足 nized through mere concepts, namely a space that, along with every足 thing that it contains, consists of purely formal or also real relations, I cannot say that since without something absolutely inner no thing can be represented through mere concepts, there is also nothing outer that does not have something absolutely internal as its ground in the things themselves that are contained under these concepts and in their intuition. For if we have abstracted from all conditions of intuition, then of course there remains nothing in the mere concept except the B 341 inner in general, and its relation in that, through which alone the outer is possible. But this necessity, which is grounded only on abstraction, does not obtain in the case of things insofar as they are given in intu- A28S ition with determinations that express mere relations without having anything inner at their ground, since these are not things in themselves but simply appearances. And whatever we can cognize only in matter is pure relations (that which we call their inner determinations is only comparatively internal); but there are among these some self-sufficient and persistent ones, through which a determinate object is given to us.
 
 The fact that if I abstract from these relations I have nothing further to think at all does not cancel out the concept of a thing as appearance, nor the concept of an object in abstracto, but does cancel all possibility of such an object determinable in accordance with mere concepts, i.e., a concept of a noumenon.a It is certainly startling to hear that a thing should consist entirely of relations, but such a thing is also mere ap足 pearance, and cannot be thought at all through pure categories; it itself consists in the mere relation of something in general to the senses. In the same way, if one begins with mere concepts one cannot very well think of the relations of things in abstracto except by thinking that one B 342 is the cause of the determinations in the other; for that is our concept of the understanding of relations itself. Yet since in this case we abstract from all intuition, an entire way in which the manifold can determine its place, namely the form of sensibility (space) disappears, which yet A286 precedes all empirical causality.
 
 If by merely intelligible objects we understand those things that are thoughtb through pure categories, without any schema of sensibility, then things of this sort are impossible. For the condition of the objec足 tive use of all our concepts of understanding is merely the manner of our sensible intuition, through which objects are given to us, and, if we a Not in roman type.
 
 b Altered in Kant's copy of the first edition to "are cognized by us" (E eL, p. 46; 23'49).
 
 379 Doctrine of Elements.
 
