" 1776-77. These thoughts seem to be as far as Kant had gotten by 177 5. In several further extensive notes from around 1776-77, we find for the first time what looks like an outline for a whole intended book. In the first of these notes, Kant divides his plan under four headings: "Dialectic of Sensibility"; "Dialectic of Understanding -Transcendental Theory of Magnitude"; "Transcendental Theory of Appearance -Reality and Negation"; and "Transcendental Theory of Experience.'" B This fourfold division does not, however, imply as elaborate a conception of the in­ tended work as it might seem to, because the first three headings all cover the same ground, namely, Kant's theory of space and time as already stated in the inaugural dissertation. The fourth part adds to this a state­ ment of the three principles of experience involving the concepts of sub­ stance, causation, and interaction that were first clearly listed in R468I.
 
 Further, in spite of the fact that the first three sections all have the word "dialectic" in their titles, it is only in the fourth section that Kant explic­ itly states both theses and antitheses of the kind that we find in the "Dialectic" of the Critique, though he also hints at antinomies in the treatment of space and time.
 
 At this point Kant is still experimenting with the organization of his planned work. But the content that he here envisages including is fairly clear: First, about space and time, he maintains that "All space and times are parts oflarger ones," and that "All parts of space and time are them­ selves spaces" and times. '34 This implies that there are no simple parts in space and time, that space and time are continuous, and that space and time are infinite yet unitary (no matter how large a region of space or time is, it is always part of one larger space or time). '35 Kant implies that in order to understand these claims we also have to assume that space and time "are nothing real."'36 Under the title of "Dialectic of Under­ standing -Transcendental Theory of Magnitude" he further states that although the nature of our representation of space and time implies the infinitude of the possible extension or division of space and time, never­ theless "Infinite space and infinite past time are incomprehensible" [un­ begreiflich]. '37 This suggests a conflict between the nature of the intuition of space and time and the nature of an intellectual concept or comprehension of them; but Kant does not explain how this conflict is to be resolved beyond asserting that "Space and time belong only to the appearances and therefore to the world and not beyond the world."l38 Then Kant turns to the "Transcendental Theory of Experience." Here he asserts three theses; Something as substance, that is matter, neither comes into nor goes out of I.
 
 existence, from nothing comes nothing, i.e., matter is eternal (ex nihilo nihil in mundo fit) although dependent.
 
 56 Introduction Every condition of the world is a consequence, for in the continuity of alter­ 2.
 
