Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II In order to clarify the regulative principlea of reason through an ex­ ample of its empirical use -not in order to confirm it (for such proofs are unworkable for transcendental propositions) -one may take a vol­ untary action, e.g. a malicious lie, through which a person b has brought about a certain confusion in society; and one may first investigate its moving causes, through which it arose, judging on that basis how the lie and its consequences could bee imputed to the person. With this first in­ tent one goes into the sources of the person's empirical character, seek­ ing them in a bad upbringing, bad company, and also finding them in the wickedness of a natural temperd insensitive to shame, partly in care­ lessness and thoughtlessness; in so doing one does not leave out of account the occasioning causes. In all this one proceeds as with any in­ vestigation in the series of determining causes for a given natural effect.
 
 A555/B 583 Now even if one believes the action to be determined by these causes, one nonetheless blames the agent, and not on account of his unhappy natural temper, not on account of the circumstances influencing him, not even on account of the life he has led previously; for one presup­ poses that it can be entirely set aside how that life was constituted, and that the series of conditions that transpired might not have been, but rather that this deed could be regarded as entirely unconditioned in re­ gard to the previous state, as though with that act the agent had started' a series of consequences entirely from himself. This blame is grounded on the law of reason, which regards reason as a cause that, regardless of all the empirical conditions just named, could have and ought to have determined the conduct of the person to be other than it is. And indeed one regards the causality of reason not as a mere concurrence with other causes, e but as complete in itself, even if sensuous incentives were not for it but were indeed entirely against it; the action is ascribed to the agent's intelligible character: now, in the moment when he lies, it is en­ tirely his fault; hence reason, regardless of all empirical conditions of the deed, is fully free, and this deed is to be attributed entirely to its fail­ ure to actf In this judgment of imputation, it is easy to see that one has the thoughts that reason is not affected at all by that sensibility, that it does Princip a Mensch b C kiinne (singular present subjunctive, indicating that the lie is the subject); in the first edi­ tion, the text reads kiinnen (plural, indicating that the consequences as well are included in the subject of the verb along with the lie).
 
 d Naturells , Konkurrenz. Although in modern German this means "competition" Kant used this term as an equivalent of concursus; in a theological context, it means divine assistance.
 
 f ihrer Unterlassung; "reason" is the only grammatically possible antecedent of the pos­ sessive pronoun.
 
 544 Section IX.
 
