David H. Chandler (Zurich and New York: Georg Olms, 1994), p. 6.
 
 7 See Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten, Meditationes philosophicae de nonnullis ad poema pertinentibus (I735), §§ II5-I6; Metaphysica (I739), § 533; and Aesthetica (I750-58), § I. The first text may be found in A. G. Baumgarten, Philosophische Betrachtungen iiber einige Bedingungen des Gedichtes, ed. Heinz Paetzold (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, I983), pp. 84-7, and the other two in A. G. Baumgarten, Texte zur Grundlegung der Asthetik, ed. Hans Rudolf Schweizer (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, I983), pp. I7, 79.
 
 8 See Kant's note at A 2 I / B 35-6. Kant tacitly retracted this criticism of Baumgarten when he decided, after I787, that there was an a priori prin­ ciple if not science for judgments of taste, and characterized judgments of natural and artistic beauty and sublimity as "aesthetic judgments" in his I790 Critique of Judgment. This work made Baumgarten's original term "aesthetics" the canonical name for the philosophical discussion of natural and artistic beauty and related properties.
 
 9 See Tonelli, p. 6.
 
 IO Kant used this traditional distinction, found in such texts as Georg Friedrich Meier's Auszug aus der VeruunJtlehre (I 752), on which he lec­ tured, in his own logic lectures; see the text published from his logic by Gottlob Benjamin Jiische, Immanuel Kant's Logic: A Manual for Lectures (I800), in Immanuel Kant, Lectures on Logic, ed. J. Michael Young (Cam­ bridge: Cambridge University Press, I992), especially pp. 589-629.
 
 I I On the origins of these terms, see again Tonelli, passim.
 
 I2 See Locke's Essay concerning Human Understanding, book I, chs. 2-4.
 
 I3 A century ago, the great Kant scholar Hans Vaihinger published a two­ volume commentary of ro66 pages that deals only with the introduction and the "Transcendental Aesthetic" of the Critique! See Hans Vaihinger, Commentar zu Kants Kritik der reinen VeruunJt, 2 vols. (Stuttgart: Spemann and Union Deutsche Verlagsgesellschaft, I88I-92).
 
 I4 The classical presentation of this dispute is in the correspondence between Leibniz and the Newtonian Samuel Clarke, published by Clarke in I7I7 after Leibniz's death the previous year; see H. G. Alexander, ed., The Leibniz­ Clarke Correspondence (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1956).
 
 I5 For recent alternative interpretations, see Henry E. Allison, Kant's Tran­ scendental Idealism (New Haven: Yale University Press, I983) and Paul Guyer, Kant and the Claims of Knowledge (Cambridge: Cambridge Univer­ sity Press, I987).
 
 I6 Early critiques of Kant's "metaphysical deduction" came from successors such as J. G. Fichte and G. W. F. Hegel. A classical modern critique of the metaphysical deduction can be found in J. F. Bennett, Kant's Analytic (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, I966). Recent defenses of the metaphysical deduction can be found in Beatrice Longuenesse, Kant et la pouvoir de juger (Paris: PUF, I993) and Reinhard Brandt, The Table of Judgment, trans. Eric Watkins, North American Kant Society Studies in Philosophy, Volume 4 (Atascadero, Cal.: Ridg'eview, I995)' I7 For some discussion of the complexities of the "Transcendental Deduc706 Notes to pages 12-25 tion," see Paul Guyer, "The Transcendental Deduction of the Categories," in Paul Guyer, ed.
 
