Ch. I. Sec. I applied to, and yet, insofar as it would be transcendental, it is so essen­ tially different from all other uses, that without the admonitory nega­ tive doctrine of a discipline especially aimed at them the errors could not be avoided that must necessarily arise from the inappropriate pur­ suit of such methods, which might be suitable for reason elsewhere but not here.
 
 First Chapter First Section The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use.
 
 Mathematics gives the most resplendent example of pure reason hap­ pily expanding itself without assistance from experience. Examples are contagious, especially for the same faculty, which naturally flatters itself that it will have the same good fortune in other cases that it has had in one. Hence pure reason hopes to be able to expand itself in as happy A7I3/B741 and well grounded a way in its transcendental use as it succeeded in doing in its mathematical use, by applying the same method in the for­ mer case that was of such evident utility in the latter. It is therefore very important for us to know whether the method for obtaining apodictic certainty that one calls mathematical in the latter science is identical with that by means of which one seeks the same certainty in philosophy, and that would there have to be called dogmatic.
 
 Philosophical cognition is rational cognition from concepts, mathematical cognition that from the construction of concepts.5 But to construct a concept means to exhibit priori the intuition corre­ a sponding to it. For the construction of a concept, therefore, a non­ empirical intuition is required, which consequently, as intuition, is an individual object,a but that must nevertheless, as the construction of a concept (of a general representation), express in the representation uni­ versal validity for all possible intuitions that belong under the same concept. Thus I construct a triangle by exhibiting an object corre­ sponding to this concept, either through mere imagination, in pure in­ tuition, or on paper, in empirical intuition, but in both cases completely priori, without having had to borrow the pattern for it from any expea A 714/ B 742 rience. The individual drawn figure is empirical, and nevertheless serves to express the concept without damage to its universality, for in the case of this empirical intuition we have taken account only of the ac­ tion of constructing the concept, to which many determinations, e.g., those of the magnitude of the sides and the angles, are entirely indif­ ferent, and thus we have abstracted from these differences, which do not alter the concept of the triangle.
 
 a Object 630 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use Philosophical cognition thus considers the particular only in the uni­ versal, but mathematical cognition considers the universal in the par­ ticular, indeed even in the individual, yet nonetheless a priori and by means of reason, so that just as this individual is determined under cer­ tain general conditions of construction, the object of the concept, to which this individual corresponds only as its schema, must likewise be thought as universally determined.
 
