On the empirical use of the regulative principle arisen, and according to the principle of understanding it turn III needs a cause.a By freedom in the cosmological sense, on the contrary, I understand A 5 3 3!B 56 I the faculty of beginning a state from itself, b the causality of which does not in turn stand under another cause determining it in time in accordance with the law of nature. Freedom in this signification is a pure transcendental idea, which, first, contains nothing borrowed from experience, and second, the object of which also cannot be given determinately in any experience, because it is a universal law -even of the possibility of all experience -that everything that happens must have a cause, and hence that the causality of the cause, as itself having happened or arisen, must in turn have a cause; through this law, then, the entire field of experience, however far it may reach, is transformed into the sum total of mere nature. But since in such a way no absolute totality of conditions in causal relationsc is forthcoming, reason creates the idea of a spontaneity, which could start to act from itself, without needing to be preceded by any other cause that in turn determines it to action according to the law of causal connection.
 
 It is especially noteworthy that it is this transcendental idea of free­ dom on which the practical concept of freedom is grounded, and the former constitutes the real moment of the difficulties in the latter ,d which have long surrounded the question of its possibility. Freedom in A534! B 562 the practical sense is the independence of the power of choice from necessitation by impulses of sensibility. For a power of choice is sensible insofar as it is pathologically affected (through moving-causes of sensibility); it is called an animal power of choice (arbitrium brutum) if it can be pathologically necessitated. The human power of choice is indeed an arbitrium sensitivum,e yet not brutum! but liberum,g because sensibility does not render its action necessary, but in the human being there is a faculty of determining oneself from oneself, independently of necessitation by sensible impulses.79 It is easy to see that if all causality in the world of sense were mere nature, then every occurrence would be determined in time by another in accord with necessary laws, and hence -since appearances, insofar as they determine the power of choice, would have to render every action a Kant notes: "The connection of effects and causes is not at all suited to things outside the world of sense; for how can God be a cause, be a being?" (E CLXXII, p. 51; 23'41) von selbst b , Knusalverhiiltnisse d dieser, a feminine dative pronoun, which therefore agrees only with "freedom" in this context; if the text were emended to read diesem, it would refer to "concept." , sensible power of choice f animal free g 533 Doctrine of Elements.
 
