Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II 5 23/ B 551 the world is given only through the regress, and not given prior to it in A a collective intuition. But the regress consists only in a determining of the magnitude, and thus it does not give a determinate concept, a con­ cept of a magnitude that would be infinite in regard to a certain mea­ sure; thus it does not go to infinity (given, as it were), but goes only indeterminately far, so as to give a magnitude (of experience) that first becomes actual through this regress.
 
 II.
 
 Resolution of the cosmological idea of the totality of division of a given whole in intuition.
 
 If I divide a whole that is given in intuition, then I go from a condi­ tioned to the conditions of its possibility. The division of the parts (sub­ divisio or decompositio) is a regress in the series of these conditions. The absolute totality of this series would be given only when and if the regress could attain to simple parts. But if each of the parts in a con­ tinuously progressing decomposition is once again divisible, then the division, i.e., the regress from the conditioned to its condition, goes in infinitum;U for the conditions (the parts) are contained in the condiA 5 24/ B 552 tioned itself, and since this conditioned is given as a whole in an intu­ ition enclosed within its boundaries, the conditions are all given along with it. The regress thus may not be called merely a regress in indefini­ tum, as only the previous cosmological idea allowed, where I was to proceed from the conditioned to conditions outside it, which were not given simultaneously with it, but were first added to it in the empirical regress. Despite this, it is by no means permitted to say of such a whole, which is divisible to infinity, that it consists of infinitely many parts.
 
 For though all the parts are contained in the intuition of the whole, the whole division is not contained in it; this division consists only in the progressive decomposition, or in the regress itself, which first makes the series actual. Now since this regress is infinite, all its mem­ bers (parts) to which it has attained are of course contained in the whole as an aggregate, but the whole series of the division is not, since it is infinite successively and never is as a whole; consequently, the re­ gress cannot exhibit any infinite multiplicityb or the taking together of this multiplicity into one whole.
 
 This general reminder is, first, very easily applied to space. Every space intuited within its boundaries is such a whole, whose parts in every de­ composition are in turn spaces, and it is therefore divisible to infinity.
 
 P to infinity Menge b 528 Section IX.
 
