Asserting a proposition and its contradictory results in a contradiction, which asserts nothing at all. Combining equal mo­ tions in opposite directions does not result in a logical nonentity, but in a state of rest that is a real state of affairs. So all sorts of sciences need room for the concept of positive and negative magnitudes, not just the logical notion of contradiction. Kant's underlying thought then, already hinted at in the last part of the Inquiry, is that the formal, logical laws of identity and contradiction are not sufficient principles for knowledge of the objective world, and that philosophy must find room for mater­ ial principles. He concludes by noting that the relation between cause and effect, although it is not a relation of opposition, is also a real rather than a logical relation, and cannot be justified by any mere analysis of concepts showing that the consequence is contained in the ground.
 
 This raises the fundamental question, "How am I to understand the fact that, because something is, something else is?"55 The problem of understanding real opposition, real causation, and more generally real relations becomes the fundamental substantive problem of theoret­ ical philosophy. Kant rejects Crusius's attempt to solve this problem, 56 and makes no mention of Hume's formulation of an empirical solution to this problem, which was already available to him in the German translation of the first Enquiry (I755). But he concludes with these prophetic words: Let us see whether we can offer a distinct explanation of how it is that, because something is, something else i.f canceled, and whether we can say anything more than I have already said on the matter, namely that it simply does not take place in virtue of the law of contradiction. I have reflected upon the nature of our cognition with respect to our judgment concerning grounds and consequences, and one day I shall present a detailed account of the fruits of my reflections.
 
 57 This day was not to come until the publication of the Critique of Pure Reason in May I78I; Kant had identified a problem to which he did not yet possess a solution. But he clearly was not waiting for a recollection of Burne to awake him from dogmatic slumbers.
 
 Kant published three more significant works during the 1760s: the Observations on the Beautiful and Sublime in 1764; Dreams of a Spirit-Seer in 1766, a devastating critique of the pretensions of Swedenborgian spiritualism as an extreme example of metaphysics that also contained some interesting anticipations of his later moral theory; and a short essay, On the Differentiation of Directions in Space, in 1768, which used the existence of incongruent counterparts (for example, right- and left­ handed gloves or screws) to argue for a Newtonian conception of ab­ solute space against a Leibnizian conception of space as a repre­ sentation of a system of relations among objects that could in principle be captured by purely conceptual relations, which would supposedly 35 Introduction leave out differences of direction between otherwise identical objects such as gloves or screws.
 
