If it is valid for everyone merely as long as he has reason, then its ground is objectively sufficient, and in that case taking something to be true is called conviction.a If it has its ground only in the particular constitution of the subject, then it is called persuasion.b Persuasion is a mere semblance,c since the ground of the judgment, which lies solely in the subject, is held to be objective. Hence such a judgment also has only private validity, and this taking something to be true cannot be communicated. Truth, however, rests upon agreement with the object, d with regard to which, consequently, the judgments of every understanding must agree (consentientia uni tertio, consentiunt inter se).e The touchstone of whether taking something to be true is convic足 tion or mere persuasion is therefore, externally, the possibility of com足 municating it and finding it to be valid for the reason of every human being to take it to be true; for in that case there is at least a presumption that the ground of the agreement of all judgments, regardless of A82 I / B 849 the difference among the subjects, rests on the common ground, namely the object/ with which they therefore all agree and through which the truth of the judgment is proved.
 
 Accordingly, persuasion cannot be distinguished from conviction subjectively, when the subject has taken something to be true merely as an appearance of his own mind; but the experiment that one makes on the understanding of others, to see if the grounds that are valid for us have the same effect on the reason of others, is a means, though only a subjective one, not for producing conviction, to be sure, but yet for re足 vealing the merely private validity of the judgment, i.e., something in it that is mere persuasion.
 
 If, moreover, one can unfold the subjective causes of the judgment, which we take to be objective grounds for it, and thus explain taking something to be true deceptively as an occurrence in our mind, without having any need for the constitution of the object, g then we expose the illusion and are no longer taken in by it, although we are always tempted to a certain degree if the subjective cause of the illusion de足 pends upon our nature.
 
 I cannot assert anything, i.e., pronounce it to be a judgment necessarily valid for everyone, except that which produces conviction. I can A822/B8S0 preserve persuasion for myself if! please to do so, but cannot and should not want to make it valid beyond myself.
 
 a Uberzeugung b Uberredung , Schein J Objekte , [Because of] agreement with a third thing, they agree among themselves.
 
 f Objecte g Objects 685 Doctrine of Method.
 
