87 Kant's attempt to reconcile this argument with his longstanding attraction to the theory of physical influx, or real interaction between distinct objects, is unavailing.88 However, not only this argument but also the underlying assumption that pure concepts of the intellect, such as the concept of substance, can be used on their own to provide knowledge of things as they are in themselves will disappear from the Critique. This particular argument will be replaced by the argument that interaction among physical ob­ jects is a necessary condition for experiencing them as simultaneously occupying different yet determinate positions in a single space (Kant's important "Third Analogy"),89 and the underlying metaphysics will be replaced by Kant's critical position that pure categories of the under­ standing lead to ideas of reason that are illusory if used for theoretical knowledge on their own, though they can serve as postulates of practi­ cal reason.
 
 The same transformation awaits Kant's treatment of "method in metaphysics" in the concluding Section 5 of the inaugural dissertation.
 
 Kant begins by arguing that philosophy has no special method to pre­ scribe to ordinary science, because here the use of the intellect is only logical, organizing concepts that are not themselves provided by the in­ tellect but are instead abstracted from experience. In the case of meta­ physics, however, where the intellect does have a real use, supplying original concepts, "method precedes all science."90 The method of meta­ physics, Kant then maintains, "amounts to this prescription: great care must be taken lest the principles that are native to sensitive cognition trans­ gress their limits, and affect what belongs to the understanding."91 The fun­ damental obstacle to progress in metaphysics, that is, comes from assuming that the necessary conditions and inherent limits of sensibil­ ity are limits on the possibility of intellectual knowledge as well. Kant lists three "subreptic axioms" that arise from this confusion. These un­ warranted assumptions are: I. The same sensitive condition, under which alone the intuition of an object is possible, is a condition of the possibility itself of the object.
 
 2. The same sensitive condition, under which alone it is possible to compare what is given so as to form a concept of the understanding of the object, is also a condition of the possibility itself of the object.
 
 3. The same sensitive condition, under which alone some object met with can be subsumed under a given concept of the understanding, is also the condition of the possibility itself of the object.92 In other words, at this stage Kant holds that it is a mistake to assume that the characteristic forms and limits of sensible representations and 44 Introduction the conditions for the application of concepts to sensible representa­ tions limit our metaphysical cognition of objects as they really are.
 
