Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III kind of affinity a of various branches, insofar as they have all sprouted from one stem.
 
 This logical law of the continuum specierum (formarum logicarum) b presupposes, however, a transcendental law (lex continui in natura),c without which the use of the understanding through the former pre­ scription would only mislead, since the prescription would perhaps take a path directly opposed to nature. This law must therefore rest on pure transcendental and not empirical grounds. For in the latter case it would come later than the systems; but it really first produced what is systematic in the cognition of nature. Behind these laws there is also nothing like a hidden intention to initiate probes, as mere experiments, A66r / B 689 though plainly this interconnection, where it applies, gives us a power­ ful reason to take as well grounded the unity that is hypothetically thought-out, and thus it has its utility in this respect; rather, one can see clearly that the laws judge the parsimony of fundamental causes, the manifoldness of effects, and the consequent affinityd of the members of nature in themselves reasonably and in conformity with nature, and these principles therefore carry their recommendation directly in them­ selves, and not merely as methodological devices.
 
 e But it is easy to see that this continuity of forms is a mere idea, for which a corresponding object can by no means be displayed in experi­ ence, not only because the species! in nature are really partitioned and therefore in themselves have to constitute a quantum discretum, g and if the graduated progress in their affinityh were continuous, they would also have to contain a true infinity of intermediate members between any two given species, which is impossible; but also because we could make no determinate empirical use at all of this law, since through it there is indicated not the least mark of that affinity, or how and how far we are to seek the degrees of its variety; rather, we are given nothing more than a general indication that we are to seek for it.
 
 A662/B690 If we transpose the principlesi we have adduced, so as to put them in an order which accords with their experiential use, then the princi­ plesi of systematic unity would stand something like this: manifolda Verwandtschaft "continuum of species (oflogical forms)"; Kant declines the entire phrase in the genitive.
 
 b , law of the continuum in nature Verwandtschaft d , bei sich f Species discrete quantum g Verwandtschaft h Principien i Principien J 600 Section VII.
 
