Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II ness), the determination of which through the succession of different states is representeda in time, is not the real self as it exists in itself, or the transcendental subject, but only an appearance of this to us un­ known being, which was given to sensibility. The existence of this inner appearance, as a thing thus existing in itself, cannot be admitted, be­ cause its condition is time, which cannot be a determination of any thing in itself. In space and time, however, the empirical truth of ap­ pearances is satisfactorily secured, and sufficiently distinguished from B 52 I its kinship with dreams, if both are correctly and thoroughly connected up according to empirical laws in one experience.
 
 Accordingly, the objects of experience are never given in them­ selves, but only in experience, and they do not exist at all outside it.
 
 A493 That there could be inhabitants of the moon, even though no human being has ever perceived them, must of course be admitted; but this meansb only that in the possible progress of experience we could en­ counter them; for everything is actual that stands in one context with a perception in accordance with the laws of the empirical progression.
 
 Thus they are real when they stand in an empirical connection with my real consciousness, although they are not therefore real in themselves, i.e., outside this progress of experience.
 
 Nothing is really given to us except perception and the empirical progress from this perception to other possible perceptions. For in themselves, appearances, as mere representations, are real only in per­ ception, which in fact is nothing but the reality of an empirical repre­ sentation, i.e., appearance. To call an appearance a real thing prior to perception means[ either that in the continuation of experience we must encounter such a perception, or it has no meaningd at all. For that it should exist in itself without relation to our senses and possible experiB 522 ence, could of course be said if we were talking about a thing in itself.
 
 But what we are talking about is merely an appearance in space and time, neither of which is a determination of things in themselves, but only of our sensibility; hence what is in them (appearances) are not something A494 in itself, but mere representations, which if they are not given in us (in perception) are encountered nowhere at all.
 
 The sensible faculty of intuition is really only a receptivity for being affected in a certain way with representations, whose relation to one an­ other is a pure intuition of space and time (pure forms of our sensibil­ ity), which, insofar as they are connected and determinable in these a vorgestellt wird; Kant's sentence contains an extra verb, ist; thus the sentence as written doesn't parse, but it suggests that Kant had not decided whether to treat "is repre­ sented" as a passive verb or as an adjectival participle.
 
 b bedeutet , bedeutet Bedeutung d 512 Section VI.
 
