Thus regarding boundedness, the progression is also a regress, and the transcendental idea of the ab­ solute totality of a synthesis in the series of conditions also applies to space, and I can ask about the absolute totality of appearances in space as well as in past time. But whether an answer to any of these questions is possible will be determined in the future.
 
 Second, reality in space, i.e., matter, is likewise something condi­ tioned, whose inner conditions are its parts, and the parts of those parts are the remote conditions, so that there occurs here a regressive syn­ thesis, whose absolute totality reason demands; and that cannot occur otherwise than through a complete division, in which the reality of mat­ ter disappears either into nothing or else into that which is no longer matter, namely the simple. 50 Consequently here too there is a series of conditions and a progress toward the unconditioned.
 
 Third, as far as the categories of real relation among appearances are concerned, the category of substance and its accidents is not suited to a transcendental idea, i.e., in regard to this category reason has no ground to proceed regressively toward conditions. For accidents (insofar as they inhere in a single substance) are coordinated with one another, and do not constitute a series. In regard to substance, however, they are not really subordinated to it, but are rather the way substance itself exists.
 
 What might still seem to be an idea of transcendental reason here would be the concept of the substantial. Only since this signifies noth­ ing other than the concept of a subsisting object in general, insofar as one thinks in it merely the transcendental subject without any predi­ cates, but here only the unconditioned in a series of appearances is under discussion, it is clear that the substantial cannot constitute a member of thatY The same holds for substances in community, which are mere aggregates and have no exponents of a series, since they are not subordinated to one another as conditions of their possibility, which one could very well have said about spaces, whose boundaries were never determined in themselves, but always through another space.
 
 Thus there remains only the category of causality, which provides a se­ ries of causes for a given effect, in which one can ascend from the effect as the conditioned to the causes as conditions, and answer the question of reason.52 Fourth, the concepts of the possible, actual, and necessary lead to no series, except only insofar as the contingent in existence always has to be seen as conditioned and refers in accordance with the rule of the un­ derstanding to a condition under which it is necessary to refer this to a higher condition, until reason attains to unconditioned necessity only in the series in its totality. 53 463 Doctrine of Elements.
 
