. . m ust give way to the modest one of a mere analytic of pure understanding" (A247/B 303)· Third, Kant rejected the argument which he was later famously to dub the "ontological" argument for the existence of God. This was the proof of St. Anselm, revived by Descartes and refined by Leibniz, that the existence of God could be inferred from predicates necessarily in­ cluded in the concept of God. Kant's rejection of it was based on the supposition that its proof is "ideal" rather than "real": that is, that it only unpacks what we may have included in the concept of God but can­ not establish that there is any object answering to that concept.28 At this stage, Kant offered an alternative argument that the real existence of God must be accepted as the ground of all possibility. He was later to re­ ject this argument too in the Critique of Pure Reason,29 but his hostility to the ontological argument and his analysis of its defect were to remain essentially unchanged. His criticism of the ontological argument was another precursor of the Critique of Pure Reason's foundational distinc­ tion between analytic and synthetic judgments. In the Critique, Kant will argue that all substantive truths in mathematics, physical science, and philosophy itself, although necessarily true and knowable inde­ pendently of appeal to any particular experience (what he will call "a priori"), go beyond what can be derived from the mere analysis of con­ cepts, and therefore require the discovery of a whole new method of thought beyond the method of analysis employed by his predecessors Leibniz, Wolff, and Baumgarten.
 
 Finally, in the Nova dilucidatio Kant rejects the basic principle of the monadology maintained by Leibniz and, following him, Baumgarten.
 
 This is the principle that everything true of a substance is true in virtue of the inherent nature of that substance itself, so that what would ap­ pear to be real interactions between substances are only reflections of the harmonious plan God has chosen to follow as the creator of all sub­ stances in a world that is the best of all possible ones precisely because it is harmonious. Kant maintains what he calls the "Principle of Suc­ cession," that "No change can happen to substances except insofar as they are connected with other substances; their reciprocal dependency on each other determines their reciprocal changes of state."30 Kant used this principle to argue for the system of "physical influx," which his teacher Martin Knutzen (1713-1751) had employed against the mon­ adology. The argument for a system of real interaction among all phys­ ical objects in space and time was to be a crucial part of the "principles of empirical thought" for which Kant would argue in the Critique.
 
 Further, Kant also derived from this "principle of succession" a special argument that all changes among perceptions would have to be explained as due to changes in bodies, and thus a proof of the "real existence of 26 Introduction bodies.
 
