Nova dilucidatio (1755). In his first treatise on metaphysics, Kant al­ ready took issue with some of the most fundamental tenets of the Leibnizian-Wolffian philosophy, while expressing his continued alle­ giance to other aspects of it. Several of the most important criticisms that Kant made in this first philosophical work will reappear in the Critique. The most important critical points made in the Nova dilucida­ tio are four. First, Kant rejects the assumption, to which Wolff may have been more clearly committed than Leibniz, that there is a "unique, ab­ solutely first, universal principle of all truths."24 What Kant argues here is a logical point, that affirmative truths rest on the principle "whatever is, is" and that negative truths rest on the principle "whatever is not, is not."25 That is, he argues that the assumption that the negation of a true proposition is false is itself a substantive presupposition of a logical sys­ tem and not something provable by any logical system itself. This is not yet the argument that there are some truths that can be demonstrated from adequate definitions by logic alone and others that require going beyond logic, which will become the distinction between analytic and synthetic judgments. But it shows that from the outset of his career Kant was dubious of the supposition that all philosophical truth could in prin­ ciple be derived from a single principle that lay beneath Leibniz's the­ ory that all true propositions can be proved by the analysis of concepts.
 
 Second, Kant rejected the proof of the principle of sufficient reason offered by both Wolff and his disciple Baumgarten. According to Kant, their proof was that if it were assumed that something did not have a sufficient ground, then its sufficient ground would be nothing, which would then mean that nothing was something;"6 this is both circular, as­ suming precisely what is in question (that everything does have a ground), and also a mere play on words. Kant's alternative argument is that in every true proposition the subject must be determinate with re­ spect to any predicate that might be asserted of an object, so that there must always be something that determines whether a given predicate is true of it. 27 This is not adequate either, since it fails to see that nothing more than the properties of an object are necessary to determine what predicates should be asserted of it. But it already reveals Kant's charac­ teristic tendency to convert ontological questions into epistemological questions -that is, the transformation of questions about what sorts of things there must be into questions about the conditions under which it is possible for us to make claims to knowledge about things. The de­ velopment of this tendency into a full-blown philosophical method will be the key to the Critique of Pure Reason, in which, as Kant is to say, "The proud name of ontology, which presumes to offer synthetic a pri25 Introduction ori cognition of things in general in a systematic doctrine .
 
