That in weighing up the rational grounds of a mere speculation everything must proceed honor- A 750/ 778 B ably seems to be the least that one can demand. If one could securely count even on this minimum, however, then the dispute of speculative reason about the important questions of God, immortality (of the soul), and freedom would either have long been decided or else would be brought to an end very soon. Thus honesty of disposition often stands in an inverse relationa to the goodness of the cause itself, and the latter has perhaps more upright and sincere opponents than defenders.
 
 I therefore presuppose readers who would not want a just cause to be defended with injustice. Now with regard to them it is already decided that, in accordance with our principles of critique, if one looks not to what happens but to what properly should happen, then there really must not be any polemic of pure reason. For how can two people con­ duct a dispute about a matter the reality of which neither of them can exhibit in an actual or even in a merely possible experience, about the idea of which he only broods in order to bring forth from it something than an idea, namely the actuality of the object itself? By what more means would they escape from the dispute, since neither can make his cause directly comprehensible and certain, but rather can only attack and refute that of his opponent? For this is the fate of all assertions of pure reason: that since they go beyond the conditions of all possible A 7 5 IIB 779 experience, outside of which no document of truth is ever to be encountered, yet at the same time must make use of the laws of the understanding, which are destined merely for empirical use but without which no step may be taken in synthetic thought, they must always be exposed to the enemy, and each can take advantage of the exposure of his enemy.
 
 One can regard the critique of pure reason as the true court of justice for all controversies of pure reason; for the critique is not involved in these disputes, which pertain immediately to objects,b but is rather set the task of determining and judging what is lawfulc in reason in general in accordance with the principles of its primary institution.
 
 WIthout this, reason is as it were in the state of nature, and it cannot make its assertions and claims valid or secure them except through war.
 
 The critique, on the contrary, which derives all decisions from the ground-rules of its own constitution, whose authority no one can doubt, grants us the peace of a state of law,d in which we should not conduct a Verhdltnisse Objecte b die Rechtsame C d eines gestzlichen Zustandes 649 Doctrine of Method.
 
