Systematic representation of all synthetic principles whether I actually think the predicate in the representation of the sub­ ject). Although it is synthetic, however, it is still only a singular propo­ sition. Insofar as it is only the synthesis of that which is homogeneous (of units) that is at issue here, the synthesis here can take place only in a single way, even though the subsequent use of these numbers is gen­ eral. If I say: "With three lines, two of which taken together are greater than the third, a triangle can be drawn," then I have here the mere function of the productive imagination, which draws the lines greater or smaller, thus allowing them to abut at any arbitrary angle. The A I65 number 7/ on the contrary, is possible in only a single way, and likewise the number I2, which is generated through the synthesis of the former with 5. Such propositions must therefore not be called axioms (for otherwise there would be infinitely many of them) but rather nu- B 206 merical formulas.
 
 This transcendental principle of the mathematics of appearances yields a great expansion of our a priori cognition. For it is this alone that makes pure mathematics in its complete precision applicable to objects of experience, which without this principle would not be so obvious, and has indeed caused much contradiction. Appearances are not things in themselves. Empirical intuition is possible only through the pure in­ tuition (of space and time); what geometry says about the latter is there­ fore undeniably valid of the former, and evasions, as if objects of the senses did not have to be in agreement with the rules of construction in space (e.g., the rules of the infinite divisibility of lines or angles), must cease. For one would thereby deny all objective validity to space, and with it at the same time to all mathematics, and would no longer know why and how far they are to be applied to appearances. The synthesis of spaces and times, as the essential form of all intuition, is that which at the same time makes possible the apprehension of the appearance, thus every outer experience, consequently also all cognition of its ob- A I66 jects, and what mathematics in its pure use proves about the former is also necessarily valid for the latter. All objections to this are only the chicanery of a falsely instructed reason, which erroneously thinks of B 207 freeing the objects of the senses from the formal condition of our sensibility, and, though they are mere appearances, represents them as objects in themselves, given to the understanding; in which case, certainly, nothing synthetic could be cognized of them a priori at all, thus not even through pure concepts of space, and the science that they determine, namely geometry, would not itself be possible.
 
 a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "in the proposition 7 + 5 = 12" (E LXXI, pp.
 
 30-1; 23:46).
 
 289 Doctrine of Elements.
 
