In Kant's words: The idea of the soul is grounded on [the idea that] the understanding must re­ late all thoughts and inner perceptions to the self and assume this as the only permanent subject.
 
 The idea of the unconditioned for all conditions in appearance is grounded in reason as the prescription to seek the completeness of all cognition of the un­ derstanding in [series of] subordination.
 
 The idea of the unconditioned unity of all objects of thought in an ens entium is necessary in order to seek the relationship among all possible [things] . . . ,6, Kant suggests that it is natural for us to form these ideas, and that there is even a subjective necessity to do so, but it is a mistake to interpret them as offering theoretical knowledge of objects of a kind that could never be presented by the senses.
 
 What led Kant to divide his diagnosis of metaphysical illusions con­ cerning the self, the world, and God into these three parts (rational psy­ chology, rational cosmology, and rational theology), when previously the claims about the soul were simply instances of the second and third antinomies (the simplicity of the soul was just an instance of simplicity in general, and the freedom of the self just an instance of absolute spon­ taneity), and an absolutely necessary ground of all contingents was the subject of the fourth antinomy? 162 The contents of the third part of the "Dialectic" in the published Critique, the "Ideal of Pure Reason," sug­ gest that Kant elevated the discussion of rational theology into a sepa­ rate section simply because he had too much material to treat it as a single antinomy -he recapitulates his critique of the ontological, cos­ mological, and physico-theological arguments from the Only Possible Ground of I763 as well as criticizing his own positive argument from that work, even while retaining the arguments about God that consti­ tute the third and fourth antinomies in the Critique. Kant would also have been hard put to integrate his positive account of the necessary ra­ tional genesis of an ideal of pure reason ("Transcendental Dialectic," Book II, Chapter III, Section 2; A57I-83/B599-6II) into any discus­ sion that takes the form of an antinomy.
 
 The criticism of rational psychology in the "Paralogism," however, is something new, which appears in these notes of I 778-79 for the first time. Here one can conjecture that the new "Paralogism" is Kant's re­ sponse to his own new transcendental deduction of the categories64 Introduction because he has claimed that the unity of consciousness is an a priori neces­ sity from which we can deduce the validity of the categories, he now also has to tell us to be careful what not to infer from this unity of con­ sciousness, namely any metaphysical claims about the soul, claims that the subject or bearer of consciousness is a unitary, simple, and eternal substance.
 
