Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II with it, the whole separatea existence of the world, but I also add a de­ termination of the world, as a thing active in itself, which might like­ wise be false, if, namely, the world were not given at all as a thing in itself, and hence, as regards its magnitude, neither as infinite nor as fi­ nite. Permit me to call such an opposition a dialectical opposition, but the contradictory one an analytical opposition.b Thus two judgments dialectically opposed to one another could both be false, because one does not merely contradict the other, but says something more than is required for a contradiction.
 
 If one regards the two propositions, "The world is infinite in magni­ tude," "The world is finite in magnitude," as contradictory opposites, then one assumes that the world (the whole series of appearances) is a thing in itself. For the world remains, even though I may rule out the infinite or finite regress in the series of its appearances. But if I take away this presupposition, or rather this transcendental illusion, and A 505 / B 533 deny that it is a thing in itself, then the contradictory conflict of the two assertions is transformed into a merely dialectical conflict, and because the world C does not exist at all (independently of the regressive series of my representations), it exists neither as an in itself infinite whole nor as an in itself finite whole. It is only in the empirical regress of the se­ ries of appearances, and by itself it is not to be met with at all. Hence if itd is always conditioned, then it is never wholly given, and the world is thus not an unconditioned whole, and thus does not exist as such a whole, either with infinite or with finite magnitude.74 \Vhat has been said here about the first cosmological idea, namely the absolute totality of magnitude in appearance, holds also for the oth­ ers. The series of appearances is to be encountered only in the regres­ sive synthesis itself, but is not encountered in itself in appearance, as a thing on its own given prior to every regress. Hence I will have to say: the multiplicity of parts in a given appearance is in itself neither finite nor infinite, because appearance is nothing existing in itself, and the parts are given for the very first time through the regress of the de­ composing synthesis, and in this regress, which is never given ab­ solutely wholly either as finite nor as infinite. The very same holds of the series of causes ordered one above another, or of conditioned exisA506/ B 534 tence up to necessary existence, which can never be regarded in thema abgesondert In the two italicized phrases, the term used is Opposition, not Kant's usual term b Entgegensetzung.
 
 , In the first edition: " ... and the world, because it ..." d diese, whose referent, on grammatical grounds, could be either "world" or "series" (but not "regress").
 
 518 Section VII.
 
