Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk I. Ch. I nothing is said by my proposition but that the soul is One of the infinite multitude of things that remain if I take away everything that is mortal.
 
 But the infinite sphere of the possible is thereby limited only to the ex­ tent that that which is mortal is separated from it, and the soul is placed B 98 in the remaining space of its domain.a But even with this exception this space still remains infinite, and more parts could be taken away from it A 73 without the concept of the soul growing in the least and being affirma­ tively determined. In regard to logical domain, therefore, this infinite judgment is merely limiting with regard to the COntent of cognition in general, and to this extent it must not be omitted from the transcen­ dental table of all moments of thinking in judgments, since the function of understanding that is hereby exercised may perhaps be important in the field of its pure a priori cognition.7 3. All relationsb of thinking in judgments are those a) of the predicate to the subject, b) of the ground to the consequence, and c) between the cognition that is to be divided andc all of the members of the division.
 
 In the first kind of judgment only two concepts are considered to be in relation to each other, in the second, two judgments, and in the third, several judgments. The hypothetical proposition "If there is perfect jus­ tice, then obstinate evil will be punished" really contains the relation of two propositions, "There is a perfect justice" and "Obstinate evil is pun­ ished." Whether both of these propositions in themselves are true re­ mains unsettled here. It is only the implication that is thought by means B 99 of this judgment. Finally, the disjunctive judgment contains the relations of two or more propositions to One another, though not the relation of sequence, but rather that of logical opposition, insofar as the sphere of one judgment excludes that of the other, yet at the same time the rela­ tion of community, insofar as the judgments together exhaust the sphere A 74 of cognition proper; it is therefore a relation of the parts of the sphere of a cognition where the sphere of each part is the complement of that of the others in the sum total of the divided cognition, e.g., "The world exists either through blind chance, or through inner necessity, or through an external cause." Each of these propositions occupies one part of the sphere of the possible cognition about the existence of a world in general, and together they occupy the entire sphere. To remove the cognition from one of these spheres means to place it in one of the a Following the first edition, Raum ihres Umfangs, rather than the second, Umfangs ihres Raums.
 
 Verhaltnisse; although he is now speaking of the functions of judgment the table had b listed under the latinate heading Relation, Kant now reverts to Verhaltnis, and in the re­ mainder of this paragraph Verhaltnis is translated by "relation." Kant's reversion to Verhaltnis here is consistent with his use of this term elsewhere, since he is talking of the relation of parts of judgments to each other rather than to us.
 
 C Kant's copy of the first edition replaces "and" with "of" (E XXIXVI, p. 23; 23:45).
 
 208 Section II.
 
