THE MESSAGE OF THE CRITIQUE The Critique of Pure Reason is complex and many-sided. Both its overall message and its meaning for the subsequent history of philosophy defy any easy summary. The Critique has perhaps most often been seen as marking out a third way that combines the virtues, while avoiding the pitfalls, of both the "rationalism" of Descartes and Leibniz and the "empiricism" of Locke and Hume. This way of reading the Critique, however, even though to some extent suggested by Kant himself, de­ pends on a simplified reading of the history of modern philosophy and at the very least on an incomplete assessment of the strengths and weak­ nesses of Kant's modern predecessors. Less controversial is the obser­ vation that the Critique's main intention is to find a middle way between traditional metaphysics, especially its attempts to bolster a theistic view of the world with a priori rational arguments, and a skepticism that would undercut the claims of modern natural science along with those of religious metaphysics.
 
 We see this clearly in the way that Kant defines the position of criti­ cal philosophy in contrast to dogmatism, empiricism, skepticism, and indifferentism. He seeks to carve out for theoretical philosophy a sig­ nificant but limited domain, distinct from that of empirical knowledge and the opinions of common sense, but excluding the exaggerated claims that have brought metaphysics into disrepute. In this way, the Critique of Pure Reason belongs to a main tradition in modern philoso­ phy, beginning with Descartes, that tries to provide an a priori philo­ sophical foundation for the methods and broad features of a modern scientific view of nature by an examination of the suitability of human cognitive faculties for the kind of knowledge of nature that modern sci­ ence aims to achieve. At the same time, Kant tries to save precisely what the dogmatic metaphysicians cannot, by connecting the claims of reli­ gious metaphysics not to the sphere of theory but to the sphere of moral practice, and, in the famous words of the second-edition preface, by limiting knowledge in order to make room for faith (BXX)X . But Kant tries to accomplish all these goals, especially the last, in an authentically Enlightenment manner, always giving first place to our rational capacity to reflect on our cognitive abilities and achievements, to correct them, and to subject the pretensions of reason to self-limitation, so that human reason itself retains ultimate authority over all matters of human knowl­ edge, belief, and action. The ultimate autonomy of human thought lies in the fact that it neither can nor must answer to any authority outside itself.
 
 The originality of the Critique can be indicated by focusing on the way it attempts simultaneously to resolve two of the most intractable 20 Introduction problems of early modern philosophy, the simultaneous vindication of the principle of universal causality and of the freedom of the human will.
 
