On the relation of understanding to objects <A> however, concepts that belong to the understanding can come about, but only by means of the imagination in relation to the sensible intuition.
 
 We therefore have a pure imagination, as a fundamental faculty of the human soul, that grounds all cognition priori. By its means we bring a into combination the manifold of intuition on the one side and the con­ dition of the necessary unity of apperception on the other. Both ex­ tremes, namely sensibility and understanding, must necessarily be con­ nected by means of this transcendental function of the imagination, since otherwise the former would to be sure yield appearances but no objects of an empirical cognition, hence there would be no experience.
 
 Actual experience, which consists in the apprehension, the association (the reproduction), and finally the recognition of the appearances, contains in the last and highest (of the merely empirical elements of expe- A 125 rience) concepts that make possible the formal unity of experience and with it all objective validity (truth) of empirical cognition. These grounds of the recognition of the manifold, so far as they concern merely the form of an experience in general, are now those categories. On them is grounded, therefore, all formal unity in the synthesis of the imagination, and by means of the latter also all of its empirical use (in recognition, reproduction, association, and apprehension) down to the appearances, since the latter belong to our consciousness at all and hence to ourselves only by means of these elements of cognition.
 
 Thus we ourselves bring into the appearances that order and regu­ larity in them that we call nature,JI and moreover we would not be able to find it there if we, or the nature of our mind, had not originally put it there. For this unity of nature should be a necessary, i.e., priori cer­ a tain unity of the connection of appearances. But how should we be able to establish a synthetic unity priori if subjective grounds of such a a unity were not contained priori among the original sources of cogni­ a tion in our mind, and if these subjective conditions were not at the same time objectively valid, being the grounds of the possibility of cognizing A I 26 any objecta in experience at all?b a Object b Question mark added. At this point, the following note is inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "That the laws of nature really have their origin in the understanding, and are just as little to be encountered outside it as space and time are, is already proved by the in any case already acknowledged assertion that we cognize them priori and as necessary; a for if, on the contrary, they had to be borrowed from outside, we could only cognize them as contingent. But then what sort oflaws are those? No greater and no less than is necessary in order to bring appearances into a general connection with one con­ sciousness, only in order to cognize objects as such -for that is the form of their intu­ ition and at the same time the condition of their unity in apperception given, and given a priori." (E LI, pp. 26-7; 23:26-7) Erdmann observes that this is the only substantial note in Kant's copy of the first241 Doctrine of Elements.
 
