We will put off examining it for a while, so as in the meantime to make plain only one ruse through which it sets up an old argument in disguised form as a new one, and appeals to the agreement of two wit­ nesses, namely a pure rational witness and another with empirical cre­ dentials, where only the first is there all alone, merely altering his clothing and voice so as to be taken for a second. In order to ground itself securely, this proof gets a footing in experience, and thereby gives itself the reputation that it is distinct from the ontological proof, which puts its whole trust solely in pure concepts a priori. But the cosmolog­ ical proof avails itself of this experience only to make a single step, namely to the existence of a necessary being in general. What this being might have in the way of properties, the empirical ground of proof cannot teach; rather, here reason says farewell to it entirely and turns its inquiry back to mere concepts: namely, to what kinds of properties in general an absolutely necessary being would have to have, i.e., A607/B635 which among all possible things contains within itself the required conditions (requisita) for an absolute necessity. ra3 Now reason believes it meets with these requisites solely and uniquely in the concept of a most real being, and so it infers: that is the absolutely necessary being.
 
 But it is clear that here one presupposes that the concept of a being of the highest reality completely suffices for the concept of an absolute necessity in existence, i.e., that from the former the latter may be inferred -a proposition the ontological proof asserted, which one thus assumes in the cosmological proof and takes as one's ground, although one had wanted to avoid it. For absolute necessity is an existence from mere concepts. Now if I say: the concept of the ens realissimuma is a concept, and indeed the one single concept, that fits necessary existence and is adequate to it, then I must admit that the latter could be concluded from it. Thus it is really only the ontological proof from mere concepts that contains all the force of proof in the so-called cosmological proof; and the supposed experience is quite superfluous -perhaps leading us only to the concept of a necessary being, but not so as to establish this concept in any determinate thing. For as soon as we have this intention, we have to abandon all experience at once and seek among pure concepts for the one that might contain the conditions for the possibility of an absolutely necessary being. But if there A608/ B 63C is insight into the possibility of such a being in such a way, then its existence is established too; for then what is meant is: among all possibles there is one that carries absolute necessity with it, i.e., this being exists with absolute necessity. I04 All semblances in inferring are most easily discovered if one puts a "most real being"; again Kant declines it in the genitive.
 
 571 Doctrine of Elements.
 
