On the Ground of the Distinction <A> and determined the place for each thing in it.94 This land, however, is an island, and enclosed in unalterable boundaries by nature itself. It is the land of truth (a charming name), surrounded by a broad and stormy B 295 ocean, the true seat of illusion, where many a fog bank and rapidly melting iceberg pretend to be new lands and, ceaselessly deceiving with A236 empty hopes the voyager looking around for new discoveries, entwine him in adventures from which he can never escape and yet also never bring to an end. But before we venture out on this sea, to search through all its breadth and become certain of whether there is anything to hope for in it, it will be useful first to cast yet another glance at the map of the land that we would now leave, and to ask, first, whether we could not be satisfied with what it contains, or even must be satisfied with it out of necessity, if there is no other ground on which we could build; and, second, by what title we occupy even this land, and can hold it securely against all hostile claims. Although we have already adequately answered these questions in the course of the Analytic, a summary overview of their solutions can still strengthen conviction by unifying their various moments in one point.
 
 We have seen, namely, that everything that the understanding draws out of itself, without borrowing it from experience, it nevertheless has solely for the sake of use in experience. The principles of pure under- B 296 standing, whether they are priori constitutive (like the mathematical a principles) or merely regulative (like the dynamical principles), contain nothing but only the pure schema, as it were, for possible experience; for A 2 3 7 this has its unity only from the synthetic unity that the understanding originally and from itself imparts to the synthesis of the imagination in relation to apperception, and in relationa to and agreement with which the appearances, as data for possible cognition, must already stand pria ori. b But now even if these rules of the understanding are not only true priori but are rather even the source of all truth, i.e., of the agreement a of our cognition with objects,' in virtue of containing the ground of the possibility of experience, as the sum total of all cognition in which ob"Noumena: beings that themselves have understanding, also causality with regard to the objects [ObjectenJ of their understanding through the understanding itself, i.e., will and then all other categories, i.e., pure intelligences. But since we take all sensible con­ ditions from them, we cannot think them determinately. The possibility of something like that is not clear." (E CXIII, p. 39; 23=35) a Beziehung. The term Verbiiltnis does not occur again until the appendix to this chapter, so further occurrences of Beziehung will not be noted.
 
 Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "We cannot have insight into the possibility b of a cause without an example from experience, thus it is not a concept that one can use outside of experience. It is to be regarded as possible in experience alone and only in it can it be assumed." (E Cxv, p. 40; 23:35) , Objecten 339 Doctrine of Elements.
 
