On the Ground of the Distinction <A> not at all positive and does not signify a determinate cognition of any sort of thing, but rather only the thinking of something in general, in which I abstract from all form of sensible intuition. But in order for a noumenona to signify a true object, to be distinguished from all phe­ nomena,b it is not enough that I liberate my thoughts from all condi­ tions of sensible intuition, but I must in addition have ground to assume another kind of intuition than this sensible one, under which such an object could be given; for otherwise my thought is empty, even though free of contradiction. To be sure, above we were able to prove not that sensible intuition is the only possible intuition, but rather that it is the only one possible for us; but we also could not prove that yet another kind of intuition is possible, and, although our thinking can ab­ stract from that sensibility, the question still remains whether it is not then a mere form of a concept and whether any object' at all is left over A253 after this separation.d The objecte to which I relate appearance in general is the transcen­ dental object, i.e., the entirely undetermined thought of something in general. This cannot be called the noumenon;f for I do not know any­ thing about what it is in itself, and have no concept of it except merely that of the object of a sensible intuition in general, which is therefore the same for all appearances. I cannot think it through any categories; for these hold of empirical intuition, in order to bring it under a con­ cept of the object in general. To be sure, a pure use of the category is possible/ i.e., without contradiction, but it has no objective validity, since it pertains to no intuition that would thereby acquire unity of the object;h for the category is a mere function of thinking, through which no object is given to me, but rather only that through which what may be given in intuition is thought.
 
 iIf I take all thinking (through categories) away from an empirical B 309 a Not printed in roman type.
 
 b Not printed in roman type.
 
 Object C d For the last part of this sentence, beginning with "whether it is not . . ., " Kant's copy of the first edition substitutes: "whether it is not then a mere form of a concept or whether after this separation possible intuition is still left over, for nobody can es­ a tablish the possibility of an intellectual intuition, and it could therefore easily be that no such manner of cognition obtained with respect to which we would consider something as an object. Thus the positive concept of a noumenon asserts something the possibility of which it cannot prove." (E CXXXVII, pp. 43-4; 23:49) , Object f Here Kant uses emphasis but not roman type.
 
 Emended in Kant's copy of the first edition to "logically possible" (E CXXXVIII, p. 44; g 23:49)· Objects h i From here to the end of the chapter, the text of the first edition is preserved in the sec­ ond with only one further change on B 3II and one added footnote on B 312.
 
 349 Doctrine of Elements.
 
