Ch. II. Sec. III A830/B 858 no human being is free of all interest in these questions. For although he might be separated from the moral interest by the absence of all good dispositions, yet even in this case there is enough left to make him fear a divine existence and a future. For to this end nothing more is re­ quired than that he at least cannot pretend to any certainty that there is no such being and no future life, which would have to be proved through reason alone and thus apodictically since he would have to es­ tablish them to be impossible, which certainly no rational human can undertake to do. That would be a negative belief, which, to be sure, would not produce morality and good dispositions, but would still pro­ duce the analogue of them, namely it could powerfully restrain the out­ break of evil dispositions.
 
 But is that all, one will say, that pure reason accomplishes in opening up prospects beyond the bounds of experience? Nothing more than two articles of belief? This much common understanding could also have A83 I / B 859 accomplished without taking advice from the philosophers!
 
 I will not boast here of the merit that philosophy has on account of the laborious effort of its critique of human reason, supposing even that this should be found in the end to be merely negative, for something more about that will be forthcoming in the next section. But do you de­ mand then that a cognition that pertains to all human beings should surpass common understanding and be revealed to you only by philoso­ phers? The very thing that you criticize is the best confirmation of the correctness of the assertions that have been made hitherto, that is, that it reveals what one could not have foreseen in the beginning, namely that in what concerns all human beings without exception nature is not to be blamed for any partiality in the distribution of its gifts, and in re­ gard to the essential ends of human nature even the highest philosophy cannot advance further than the guidance that nature has also conferred on the most common understanding.
 
 690 The Transcendental Doctrine of Method Third Chapter The architectonic of pure reason By an architectonic I understand the art of systems.
 
