Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II If something happens, the mere arising, without regard to that which comes to be, is already in itself an object of investigation. It is already necessary to investigate the transition from the non-being of a state to this state, assuming that this state contained no quality in the appear­ ance. This arising concerns, as was shown in section A,a not the sub­ stance (for that does not arise), but its state. It is therefore merely alteration, and not an origination out of nothing. If this origination is regarded as the effect of a foreign cause, then it is called creation, which cannot be admitted as an occurrence among the appearances, for its possibility alone would already undermine the unity of experience, though if I consider all things not as phenomena but rather as things in B 2 S 2 themselves and as objects of mere understanding, then, though they are substances, they can be regarded as dependent for their existence on a foreign cause; which, however, would introduce entirely new meanings for the words and would not apply to appearances as possible objects of experience.
 
 Now how in general anything can be altered, how it is possible that A207 upon a state in one point of time an opposite one could follow in the next -of these we have a priori not the least concept. For this acquain­ tance with actual forces is required, which can only be given empiri­ cally, e.g., acquaintance with moving forces, or, what comes to the same thing, with certain successive appearances (as motions) which indicate such forces. But the form of such an alteration, the condition under which alone it, as the arising of another state, can occur (whatever the content, i.e., the state, that is altered might be), consequently the suc­ cession of the states itself (that which has happened), can still be con­ sidered a priori according to the law of causality and the conditions of time.* B 2 S3 If a substance passes out of a state a into another state b, then the point in time of the latter is different from the point in time of the first state and follows it. Likewise the second state as a reality (in the ap­ pearance) is also distinguished from the first, in which it did not yet exist, as b is distinguished from zero; i.e., if the state b differs from the state a even only in magnitude, then the alteration would be an arising A208 of b-a, which did not exist in the prior state, and with regard to which the latter = o.
 
 A 207 / B 252 * Note well that I am not talking about the alteration of certain relationsb in general, but rather of the alteration of the state. Hence if a body is moved uni­ formly, then it does not alter its state (of motion) at all, although it does if its motion increases or diminishes.
 
 a That is, in the "First Analogy." b Relationen 314 Section III.
 
