Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> signifies nothing at all.a This predicate is attributed to things only inso­ far as they appear to us, i.e., are objects of sensibility.b,I4 The constant form of this receptivity, which we call sensibility, is a necessary condi­ tion of all the relations within which objects can be intuited as outside us, and, if one abstracts from these objects, it is a pure intuition, which bears the name of space. Since we cannot make the special conditions of sensibility into conditions of the possibility of things, but only of their appearances, we can well say that space comprehends all things that may appear to us externally, but not all things in themselves, whether they be intuited or not, ord by whatever subject they may be intuited.
 
 For we cannot judge at all whether the intuitions of other thinking be­ ings are bound to the same conditions that limit our intuition and that are universally valid for us. If we add the limitatione of a judgment to the concept of the subject, then the judgment is unconditionally valid. The proposition "All things are next to one another in space"! is valid only under the limitation that these things be taken as objects of our sensible intuition. Ifhere I add the condition to the concept and say: All things, " as outer intuitions, are next to one another in space," then this rule is B44 valid universally and without limitation. Our expositions accordingly Az8 teach the reality (i.e., objective validity) of space in regard to everything that can come before us externally as an object, but at the same timeg the ideality of space in regard to things when they are considered in them­ selves through reason, i.e., without taking account of the constitution of our sensibility. We therefore assert the empirical reality of space (with respect to all possible outer experience), though to be sure at the same time its transcendental ideality, i.e., that it is nothing as soon as we leave out the condition of the possibility of all experience, and take it as something that grounds the things in themselves.
 
 a Inserted in Kant's copy: "Perhaps all created beings are bound to it, that we do not know. This much one can know, that it is a merely sensible form. The most important thing is that it yields a determinate concept a priori, and through inner intuition we would not have sensations, thus no empirical representations and no science of objects [Objectel a priori." (E XVIII, p. 17; 23'13) b Here Kant's copy inserts: "as Mendelssohn could so apodictically assert, since he still gave space objective reality." (E XX, p. 17; 23'44) At about this point, this partially decipherable note also appears: "Field of space and of time.
 
 "1. Both cannot extend further than to objects of the senses, thus not to God; 2.
 
 Even among these they are valid only of things as objects of ..." (E XIX, p. 17; 23:23) C Here Kant's copy inserts "ever" (nur immer) (E XXI, p. 18; 23:44).
 
 In his copy Kant crosses out "or not, or" (E XXII, p. 18; 23:44).
 
 d c Kant's copy changes "limitation" to "limiting condition" (E XXIII, p. 18; 23'45).
 
 f In his copy Kant changes this proposition to "All things are next to one another in space or they are somewhere" (E XXIv, p. 18; 23:45).
 
 g In his copy Kant inserts "also" (changing "Db zwar" to "aber auch" (£ xxv, p. 18; 23:45) 160 Section I.
 
