Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II The Antinomy of Pure Reason Section Five Skeptical representation of the cosmological questions raised by all four transcendental ideas.
 
 We would gladly refrain from demanding to see our questions answered dogmatically if we comprehended right from the start that however the answer might come out, it would only increase our ignorance, remov­ ing one inconceivability only to replace it with another, taking us out of one obscurity only to plunge us into a still greater one, and perhaps even into contradictions. If our question is put merely in terms of affir­ mation or negation, then it is prudent to handle it by initially leaving aside the supposed grounds for each side and first taking into account what one would gain if the answer turned out on one side or on the op­ posite side. Now if it so happened that the result in both cases was something quite empty of sense (nonsense),a then we would have good grounds to summon our question itself to be critically examined and to see whether it does not itself rest on a groundless presupposition and play with an idea that better betrays its falsity in its application and con­ sequences than in its abstract representation. This is the great utility of A486/B 514 the skeptical way of treating the questions that pure reason puts to pure reason; by means of it one can with little expense exempt oneself from a great deal of dogmatic rubbish, and put in its place a sober critique, which, as a true cathartic, will happily purge such delusions along with the punditryb attendant on them.
 
 Accordingly, if! could antecedently see about a cosmological idea that whatever side of the unconditioned in the regressive synthesis of appear­ ances it might come down on, it would be either too big or too small for every concept of the understanding, then I would comprehend that since it has to do with an object of experience,?' which should con­ form to a possible concept of the understanding, this idea must be en­ tirely empty and without significance because the object does not fit it no matter how I may accommodate the one to the other. And this is ac­ tually the case with all the world-concepts, which is why reason, as long as it holds to them, is involved in an unavoidable antinomy. For assume: First, that the world has no beginning; then it is too big for your concept; for this concept, which consists in a successive regress, can never reach the whole eternity that has elapsed. Suppose it has a be­ ginning, then once again it is too small for your concept of underA487/ B 5 I 5 standing in the necessary empirical regress. For since the beginning a lauter Sinnleeres (Nonsens) Vielwisserei b 508 Section V Skeptical representation of all cosmological questions always presupposes a preceding time, it is still not unconditioned, and the law of the empirical use of the understanding obliges you to ask for a still higher temporal condition, and the world is obviously too small for this law.
 
