Ch. I. Sec. I reflect on this concept as long as he wants, yet he will never produce anything new. He can analyze and make distinct the concept of a straight line, or of an angle, or of the number three, but he will not come upon any other properties that do not already lie in these con­ cepts. But now let the geometer take up this question. He begins at once to construct a triangle. Since he knows that two right angles to­ gether are exactly equal to all of the adjacent angles that can be drawn at one point on a straight line, he extends one side of his triangle, and obtains two adjacent angles that together are equal to two right ones.
 
 Now he divides the external one of these angles by drawing a line par­ allel to the opposite side of the triangle, and sees that here there arises an external adjacent angle which is equal to an internal one, etc.6 In A 71 7 / B 745 such a way, through a chain of inferences that is always guided by intu­ ition, he arrives at a fully illuminating and at the same time general so­ lution of the question.
 
 But mathematics does not merely construct magnitudes (quanta), as in geometry, but also mere magnitude (quantitatem), as in algebra,a where it entirely abstracts from the constitution of the object that is to be thought in accordance with such a concept of magnitude.7 In this case it chooses a certain notation for all construction of magnitudes in general (numbers), as well as addition, subtraction, extraction of roots, etc./ and, after it has also designated the general concept of quantities in accordance with their different relations,' it then exhibits all the pro­ cedures through which magnitude is generated and altered in accor­ dance with certain rules in intuition; where one magnitude is to be divided by another, it places their symbols together in accordance with the form of notation for division, and thereby achieves by a symbolic construction equally well what geometry does by an ostensive or geo­ metrical construction (of the objects themselves), which discursive cog­ nition could never achieve by means of mere concepts.
 
 "What might be the cause of the very different situations in which these two reasoners find themselves, one of whom makes his way in ac­ cordance with concepts, the other in accordance with intuitions that A 718/ B 746 he exhibits a priori for the concepts? According to the transcendental fundamental doctrine expounded above, this cause is clear. At issue here are not analytic propositions, which can be generated through mere analysis of concepts (here the philosopher would without doubt have the advantage over his rival), but synthetic ones, and indeed ones that are to be cognized a priori. For I am not to see what I actually think " Buchstabenrechung b Following Erdmann, closing the parenthesis after "numbers" instead of "subtra:ction"; also moving the "etc." following "subtraction" to its present position.
 
 , Verhiiltnissen 632 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use in my concept of a triangle (this is nothing further than its mere defin­ ition), rather I am to go beyond it to properties that do not lie in this concept but still belong to it.
 
