Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II merea ideas, about which one can be at one's most eloquent just because one knows nothing about them; whereas regarding inquiries into na­ ture, it would have to keep quiet and concede that it is ignorant.
 
 Comfort and vanity are therefore already a strong recommendation for these principles. Besides, even though for a philosopher it is very diffi­ cult to assume something as a principle without being able to give an account of it, or even to assume concepts into whose objective reality there can be no insight, there is nothing more usual for the common understanding. It wants to have something from which it can proceed with confidence. The difficulty of comprehending such a presupposi­ tion itself does not disturb it, because (in the case of one who does not know what it means to comprehend) this never crosses its mind, and it takes as known what has become familiar to it through repeated usage.
 
 Finally, for the common understanding every speculative interest van­ ishes before practical interest, and it imagines itself to have insight and B 502 knowledge into whatever its apprehensions or hopes impel it to assume A474 or believe. In this way empiricism is robbed completely of all popular­ ity by transcendentally idealizing reason; and for all the disadvantages itb may contain regarding the supreme practical principles, we need have no apprehension that it will ever pass beyond the boundary of the schools, and acquire any considerable regard in the community or any favor among the great multitude.
 
 Human reason is by nature architectonic, i.e., it considers all cogni­ tions as belonging to a possible system, and hence it permits only such principlesc as at least do not render an intended cognition incapable of standing together with others in some system or other. But the propo­ sitions of the antithesis are of a kind that they do render the completion of an edifice of cognitions entirely impossible. According to them, be­ yond every state of the world there is another still older one; within every part there are always still more that are divisible; before every oc­ currence there was always another which was in turn generated by oth­ ers; and in existence in general everything is always only conditioned, and no unconditioned or first existence is to be recognized. Thus since the antithesis nowhere allows a first or a starting point that would serve absolutely as the foundation for its building, a completed edifice of cog­ nition on such presuppositions is entirely impossible. Hence the archi­ tectonic interest of reason (which is demanded not by empirical unity but by pure rational unity) carries with it a natural recommendation for the assertions of the thesis.
 
 " tauter b sic; this pronoun, repeated in the next clause, refers grammatically to "transcendentally idealizing reason"; but as Erdmann implies, the sense requires that it be er, referring to "empiricism." , Principien 502 Section IV On the transcendental problems of pure reason But if a human being could renounce all interests, and, indifferent to all consequences, consider the assertions of reason merely according to their grounds, then, supposing that he knows no way of escaping from the dilemma a except by confessing allegiance to one or the other of the conflicting doctrines, such a person would be in a state of ceaseless vac­ illation.
 
