Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II matters can be expected. I do not include the questions of the tran­ scendental analytic here, because now we are dealing only with the cer­ tainty of judgments in regard to objects, and not in regard to the origin of Our concepts themselves.
 
 Thus we cannot evade the obligation of giving at least a critical res­ olution of the questions of reason before us by lamenting the narrow limits of our reason and confessing, with the appearance of a modest self-knowledge,a that it lies beyond our reason to settle whether the world has existed from eternity or has a beginning, whether world­ space is filled to infinity with beings or is enclosed within certain boundaries, whether there is anything simple in the world or everything has to be divided infinitely, whether there is a generating and produc­ ing through freedom Or everything depends on the causal chain of the natural order, and finally, whether there is any being entirely uncondi­ tioned and in itself necessary or whether the existence of everything is conditioned and hence externally dependent and in itself contingent.
 
 For each of these questions concerns an object that can be given nowhere but in our thoughts, namely the absolutely unconditioned to­ tality of the synthesis of appearances. If we cannot say or settle anything A482 / B 510 certain about these questions on the basis of our own concepts, then we must not pass the blame on to the subject matter,b as hiding itself from us; for such a subject matter (because it is encountered nowhere outside our idea) cannot be given to us at all, but rather we must seek the cause in our idea itself, as a problem permitting of no solution, about which, however, we stubbornly insist on an actual object corresponding to it. A clear presentation of the dialectic lying in our concept itself would soon bring us to complete certainty about what we have to judge in regard to such a question.
 
 In response to your objection that these problems are uncertain one can counterpose this question, to which, at least, you must give a clear answer: Where do you get the ideas the solution to which involves you in such difficulties? Is it perhaps appearances, whose explanation you need here, and about which, owing to these ideas, you have to seek only the principlesc or the rule of their exposition? Assume that nature were completely exposed to you; that nothing were hidden from your senses and to the consciousness of everything laid before your intuition: even then you still could not, through any experience, cognize in concreto the object of your ideas (for besides this complete intuition, a completed B 5 I I synthesis and the consciousness of its absolute totality would be reSelbsterkenntnis a b Sache , Principien 506 Section IV On the transcendental problems of pure reason quired, but that is not possible through any empirical cognition); hence your question cannot in any way be necessarily poseda in the course of explaining any experience that might come before you, and thus posed, as it were, through the object itself.
 
