ation everything is starting and stopping, and both have a cause.
 
 3. All appearances together constitute a world and belong to real objects (against idealism). God as a cause does not belong to the world. For only through the agreement of representations with objects do they agree with one another and acquire the unity which perceptions that would be appearances must have.
 
 To the first two theses he opposes what he explicitly labels "antitheses": for (I), the antithesis is that "There is no substance," and for (2), "Then there would be no first cause." Kant is not clear about the source of the conflict between theses and antitheses, although the whole note seems to suggest a conflict between the infinite structure of space and time and the needs of the understanding.
 
 The next note gives a clear picture of the sources of dialectical con­ flict, while also suggesting that the whole content of the Critique could be organized around this conflict. Kant begins by explicitly formulating for the first time a principle that will be crucial in the Critique: "The principles of the possibility of experience (of distributive unity) are at the same time the principles of the possibility of the objects of experi­ ence." He then suggests that there are two classes of such principles, namely, (I) principles of "Unity of intuition," or principles of "appear­ ance" as such, and (2) the principles of "experiences," or those in ac­ cordance with which "the existence of appearances is given." Finally, he suggests how antinomies arise: we get one set of principles from the "empirical use of reason," where the concepts of reason are applied to "space and time as conditions of appearance," and a different set from the "pure use of reason," where space and time are not taken to be con­ ditions of the use of the concepts of reason. On this basis, Kant de­ scribes two sets of competing principles that clearly lead directly to the "Antinomy of Pure Reason" expounded in the Critique: Immanent principles of the empirical use of understanding: There is no bound to the composition and decomposition of appearances.
 
 I.
 
 There is no first ground or first beginning.
 
 2.
 
 3· Everything is mutable and variable, thus empirically contingent, since time itself is necessary but nothing is necessarily attached to time.
 
 Transcendent principles of the pure use of understanding: There is a first part, namely the simple as principium of composition, and 1.
 
 there are limits to all appearances together.
 
 There is an absolute spontaneity, transcendental freedom.
 
 2.
 
 3· There is something which is necessary in itself, namely the unity of the high­ est reality, in which all multiplicity of possibilities can be determined through limits . '39 . .
 
 The first pair of principles from each group stakes out the debate sep­ arated into the first two antinomies in the Critique, the disputes over 57 Introduction whether or not space and time are infinite in extension and over whether or not they are infinitely divisible; the second pair corresponds to the third antinomy in the Critique, which debates whether all events have an antecedent cause or whether there is a first cause that has no antecedent cause of its own; and the third pair parallels the later fourth antinomy, which debates whether the whole series of events in the world is contingent or has an external ground that makes it necessary.
 
