Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II ing of the faculty of an object of sense in this double aspect does not con­ tradict any of the concepts we have to fonn of appearances and of a pos­ sible experience. For since these appearances, because they are not things in themselves, must be grounded in a transcendental object de­ termining them as mere representations, nothing hinders us from asA 539/ B 567 cribing to this transcendental object, apart from the property through which it appears, also another causality that is not appearance, even though its effect is encountered in appearance. But every effective cause must have a character, i.e., a law of its causality, without which it would not be a cause at all. And then for a subject of the world of sense we would have first an empirical character, through which its actions, as appearances, would stand through and through in connection with other appearances in accordance with constant natural laws, from which, as their conditions, they could be derived; and thus, in combination with these other appearances, they would constitute members of a single se­ ries of the natural order. Yet second, one would also have to aU ow this subject an intelligible character, through which it is indeed the cause of those actions as appearances, but which does not stand under any con­ ditions of sensibility and is not itself appearance. The first one could call the character of such a thing in appearance, the second its character as a thing in itself.
 
 Now this acting subject, in its intelligible character, would not stand under any conditions of time, for time is only the condition of appear­ ances but not of things in themselves.8r In that subject no action would A540/B 568 arise or perish, hence it would not be subject to the law of everything alterable in its time-determination that everything that happens must find its cause in the appearances (of the previous state). In a word, its causality, insofar as it is intellectual, would not stand in the series of em­ pirical conditions that makes the occurrence in the world of sense nec­ essary. This intelligible character could, of course, never be knowna immediately, because we cannot perceive anything except insofar as it appears, but it would have to be thought in conformity with the em­ pirical character, just as in general we must ground appearances in thought through a transcendental object, even though we know noth­ ing about it as it is in itself.
 
 In its empirical character, this subject, as appearance, would thus be representation, if it is reason, hence is the determinability of its causality in respect of objects, i.e., its faculty of desire [is] will. If pure reason has causality, then the will is a pure will, and its causality is called freedom.
 
 "[Now] we cannot cognize [a priorl1 any causes, nor in general any intuitions corre­ sponding to the categories, or relationships between them, but we must take all these from experience. Hence whether freedom is possible cannot be settled." (E CLXXIII, pp. 51-2; 23:41) a gekannt 536 Section IX.
 
