Reason will be a further faculty, which has a legitimate logical use insofar as it links judgments constituted with concepts of the understanding into more complex, inferential structures, but has a mistaken real use if it is thought that either by means of infer­ ence or by the use of concepts of the understanding without accompa­ nying data from sensibility it can obtain knowledge of non-empirical objects such as God. The only legitimate real use of reason will be to for­ mulate conceptions of non-empirical objects that may be validated by moral considerations; that is, reason has a real use only as practical rea­ son. Thus, reason will be denied the power of introducing a "paradigm" of "noumenal perfection" on theoretical grounds, though it will retain the power of introducing the practical paradigm of "moral perfection" and will be able to justify a certain non-cognitive use of theoretical ideas as what Kant will come to call "postulates of practical reason."75 The few paragraphs of Section 2, then, introduce fundamental as­ sumptions of the Critique of Pure Reason as well as positions that will be radically revised. The three paragraphs of Section 3, by contrast, pre­ sent a treatment of the forms of intuition, space, and time, that will be carried over into the Critique largely unaltered, though (especially in the second edition of the Critique) somewhat amplified. Here Kant claims that the principle of form of the world as appearance or phe­ nomenon is "a fixed law of the mind, in virtue of which it is necessary that all the things that can be objects of the senses . . . a re seen as neces­ sarily belonging to the same whole."76 He then argues that there are in fact two such laws or principles, time, the form of all that we sense, whether inner or outer, and space, the form of our outer sense, or our sensory perception of objects we take to be distinct from ourselves.
 
 Kant argues that space and time are both the pure forms of all intuitions, or ''formal principle[sJ of the sensible world,"77 and themselves pure intu­ itions:78 They are the forms in which particular objects are presented to us by the senses, but also themselves unique particulars of which we can have a priori knowledge, the basis of our a priori knowledge of both mathematics and physics.79 But the embrace of space and time "is lim­ ited to actual things, insofar as they are thought capable ofja lting under the senses" we have no ground for asserting that space and time char­ acterize things that we are incapable of sensing.80 Kant makes the following claims about time:81 (I) "The idea of time does not arise from but is presupposed by the senses": this is because any con­ cepts we can form from our experience of things already presupposes that we can represent them as either simultaneous or successive. (2) "The idea of time is singular and not general": this is because all particu­ lar times, say two particular years, are thought of as part of a single larger time, in which they each occupy a determinate position, and are 41 Introduction not just unrelated tokens of a similar type.
 
