e., in the form of the inner intuition of my self. On this basis the personality of the soul must be regarded not as inferred but rather as a completely identical proposition of self-consciousness in time, and that is also the cause of its being valid priori. For it really says no more than a that in the whole time in which I am conscious of myself, I am con­ scious of this time as belonging to the unity of my Self, and it is all the same whether I say that this whole time is in Me, as an individual unity, or that I am to be found with numerical identity, in all of this time.
 
 The identity of person is therefore inevitably to be encountered in my own consciousness. But if I consider myself from the standpoint of another (as an object of his outer intuition), then it is this external ob­ server who originally considers a me as in time; for in apperception time is properly represented only in me. Thus from the I that accompanies -and indeed with complete identity -all representations at every A 363 time in my consciousness, although he admits this I, he will still not infer the objective persistence of my Self. For just as the time in which the observer posits me is not the time that is encountered in my sensibility but that which is encountered in his own, so the identity that is necessarily combined with my consciousness is not therefore combined with his consciousness, i.e., with the outer intuition of my subject.
 
 The identity of the consciousness of Myself in different times is there­ fore only a formal condition of my thoughts and their connection, but it does not prove at all the numerical identity of my subject, in which -de­ spite the logical identity of the I -a change can go on that does not allow it to keep its identity; and this even though all the while the identical­ sounding "I" is assigned to it, which in every other state, even in the re­ placement of the subject, still keeps in view the thought of the previous subject, and thus could also pass it along to the following one.* * An elastic ball that strikes another one in a straight line communicates to the latter its whole motion, hence its whole state (if one looks only at their posi­ tions in space). Now assuming substances, on the analogy with such bodies, in which representations, together with consciousness of them, flow from one to A 364 another, a whole series of these substances may be thought, of which the first would communicate its state, together with its consciousness, to the second, which would communicate its own state, together with that of the previous substance, to a third substance, and this in turn would share the states of all previous ones, together with their consciousness and its own. The last substance would thus be conscious of all the states of all the previously altered substances as its own states, because these states would have been carried over to it, together with the consciousness of them; and in spite of this it would not have been the very same person in all these states.28 a allererst ... erwagt 423 Doctrine of Elements.
 
