According to this, this surplus-labour of the English agricultural labourer is to his necessary labour as 3:1, which gives a rate of exploitation of 300%.
 
 The favorite method of treating the working day as constant in magnitude became, through the use of formulae II., a fixed usage, because in them surplus-labour is always compared with a working day of given length. The same holds good when the repartition of the value produced is exclusively kept in sight. The working day that has already been realized in given value, must necessarily be a day of given length.
 
 The habit of representing surplus-value and value of labour-power as fractions of the value created – a habit that originates in the capitalist mode of production itself, and whose import will hereafter be disclosed – conceals the very transaction that characterizes capital, namely the exchange of variable capital for living labour-power, and the consequent exclusion of the labourer from the product. Instead of the real fact, we have false semblance of an association, in which labourer and capitalist divide the product in proportion to the different elements which they respectively contribute towards its formation.3 Moreover, the formulae II. can at any time be reconverted into formulae I. If, for instance, we have Surplus-labour of 6 hours Working day of 12 hours then the necessary labour-time being 12 hours less the surplus-labour of 6 hours, we get the following result, Surplus-labour of 6 hours 100 = Necessary labour of 6 hours 100 There is a third formula which I have occasionally already anticipated; it is Surplus-value Surplus-labour Unpaid labour III. = = Value of labour-power Necessary labour Paid labour After the investigations we have given above, it is no longer possible to be misled, by the formula Unpaid labour, Paid labour into concluding, that the capitalist pays for labour and not for labour-power. This formula is only a popular expression for Surplus-labour, Necessary labour The capitalist pays the value, so far as price coincides with value, of the labour-power, and receives in exchange the disposal of the living labour-power itself. His usufruct is spread over two periods. During one the labourer produces a value that is only equal to the value of his labour-power; he produces its equivalent. This the capitalist receives in return for his advance of the price of the labour-power, a product ready made in the market. During the other period, the period of surplus-labour, the usufruct of the labour-power creates a value for the capitalist, that costs him no equivalent.4 This expenditure of labour-power comes to him gratis. In this sense it is that surplus-labour can be called unpaid labour.
 
 Capital, therefore, it not only, as Adam Smith says, the command over labour. It is essentially the command over unpaid labour. All surplus-value, whatever particular form (profit, interest, or 375 Chapter 18 rent), it may subsequently crystallize into, is in substance the materialisation of unpaid labour.
 
