Chapter Summary The inversion of the 4th Law of Behavior Change is make it unsatisfying.
 
 We are less likely to repeat a bad habit if it is painful or unsatisfying.
 
 An accountability partner can create an immediate cost to inaction. We care deeply about what others think of us, and we do not want others to have a lesser opinion of us.
 
 A habit contract can be used to add a social cost to any behavior. It makes the costs of violating your promises public and painful.
 
 Knowing that someone else is watching you can be a powerful motivator.
 
 HOW TO CREATE A GOOD HABIT The 1st Law: Make It Obvious 1.1: Fill out the Habits Scorecard. Write down your current habits to become aware of them.
 
 1.2: Use implementation intentions: “I will [BEHAVIOR] at [TIME] in [LOCATION].” 1.3: Use habit stacking: “After [CURRENT HABIT], I will [NEW HABIT].” 1.4: Design your environment. Make the cues of good habits obvious and visible.
 
 The 2nd Law:Make It Attractive 2.1: Use temptation bundling. Pair an action you want to do with an action you need to do.
 
 2.2: Join a culture where your desired behavior is the normal behavior.
 
 2.3: Create a motivation ritual. Do something you enjoy immediately before a difficult habit.
 
 The 3rd Law: Make It Easy 3.1: Reduce friction. Decrease the number of steps between you and your good habits.
 
 3.2: Prime the environment. Prepare your environment to make future actions easier.
 
 3.3: Master the decisive moment. Optimize the small choices that deliver outsized impact.
 
 3.4: Use the Two-Minute Rule. Downscale your habits until they can be done in two minutes or less.
 
 3.5: Automate your habits. Invest in technology and onetime purchases that lock in future behavior.
 
 The 4th Law: Make It Satisfying 4.1: Use reinforcement. Give yourself an immediate reward when you complete your habit.
 
 4.2: Make “doing nothing” enjoyable. When avoiding a bad habit, design a way to see the benefits.
 
 4.3: Use a habit tracker. Keep track of your habit streak and “don’t break the chain.” 4.4: Never miss twice. When you forget to do a habit, make sure you get back on track immediately.
 
 HOW TO BREAK A BAD HABIT Inversion of the 1st Law: Make It Invisible
 
