because it forces you into two habits: the habit you’re trying to build and the habit of tracking it. Counting calories sounds like a hassle when you’re already struggling to follow a diet. Writing down every sales call seems tedious when you’ve got work to do. It feels easier to say, “I’ll just eat less.” Or, “I’ll try harder.” Or, “I’ll remember to do it.” People inevitably tell me things like, “I have a decision journal, but I wish I used it more.” Or, “I recorded my workouts for a week, but then quit.” I’ve been there myself. I once made a food log to track my calories. I managed to do it for one meal and then gave up.
 
 Tracking isn’t for everyone, and there is no need to measure your entire life.
 
 But nearly anyone can benefit from it in some form—even if it’s only temporary.
 
 What can we do to make tracking easier?
 
 First, whenever possible, measurement should be automated. You’ll probably be surprised by how much you’re already tracking without knowing it. Your credit card statement tracks how often you go out to eat. Your Fitbit registers how many steps you take and how long you sleep. Your calendar records how many new places you travel to each year. Once you know where to get the data, add a note to your calendar to review it each week or each month, which is more practical than tracking it every day.
 
 Second, manual tracking should be limited to your most important habits. It is better to consistently track one habit than to sporadically track ten.
 
 Finally, record each measurement immediately after the habit occurs. The completion of the behavior is the cue to write it down. This approach allows you to combine the habitstacking method mentioned in Chapter 5 with habit tracking.
 
 The habit stacking + habit tracking formula is: After [CURRENT HABIT], I will [TRACK MY HABIT].
 
 After I hang up the phone from a sales call, I will move one paper clip over.
 
 After I finish each set at the gym, I will record it in my workout journal.
 
 After I put my plate in the dishwasher, I will write down what I ate.
 
 These tactics can make tracking your habits easier. Even if you aren’t the type of person who enjoys recording your behavior, I think you’ll find a few weeks of measurements to be insightful. It’s always interesting to see how you’ve actually
 
