In the following chapters, we will see time and again how the four stages of cue, craving, response, and reward influence nearly everything we do each day. But before we do that, we need to transform these four steps into a practical framework that we can use to design good habits and eliminate bad ones.
 
 I refer to this framework as the Four Laws of Behavior Change, and it provides a simple set of rules for creating good habits and breaking bad ones.
 
 You can think of each law as a lever that influences human behavior. When the levers are in the right positions, creating good habits is effortless. When they are in the wrong positions, it is nearly impossible.
 
 How to Create a Good Habit The 1st law (Cue): Make it obvious.
 
 The 2nd law (Craving): Make it attractive.
 
 The 3rd law (Response): Make it easy.
 
 The 4th law (Reward): Make it satisfying.
 
 We can invert these laws to learn how to break a bad habit.
 
 How to Break a Bad Habit Inversion of the 1st law (Cue): Make it invisible.
 
 Inversion of the 2nd law (Craving): Make it unattractive.
 
 Inversion of the 3rd law (Response): Make it difficult.
 
 Inversion of the 4th law (Reward): Make it unsatisfying.
 
 It would be irresponsible for me to claim that these four laws are an exhaustive framework for changing any human behavior, but I think they’re close. As you will soon see, the Four Laws of Behavior Change apply to nearly every field, from sports to politics, art to medicine, comedy to management.
 
 These laws can be used no matter what challenge you are facing. There is no need for completely different strategies for each habit.
 
 Whenever you want to change your behavior, you can simply ask yourself: 1. How can I make it obvious?
 
 2. How can I make it attractive?
 
 3. How can I make it easy?
 
 4. How can I make it satisfying?
 
 If you have ever wondered, “Why don’t I do what I say I’m going to do? Why don’t I lose the weight or stop smoking or save for retirement or start that side business? Why do I say something is important but never seem to make time for it?” The answers to those questions can be found somewhere in these four laws.
 
