Chapter Summary The inversion of the 3rd Law of Behavior Change is make it difficult.
 
 A commitment device is a choice you make in the present that locks in better behavior in the future.
 
 The ultimate way to lock in future behavior is to automate your habits.
 
 Onetime choices—like buying a better mattress or enrolling in an automatic savings plan—are single actions that automate your future habits and deliver increasing returns over time.
 
 Using technology to automate your habits is the most reliable and effective way to guarantee the right behavior.
 
 HOW TO CREATE A GOOD HABIT The 1st Law: Make It Obvious 1.1: Fill out the Habits Scorecard. Write down your current habits to become aware of them.
 
 1.2: Use implementation intentions: “I will [BEHAVIOR] at [TIME] in [LOCATION].” 1.3: Use habit stacking: “After [CURRENT HABIT], I will [NEW HABIT].” 1.4: Design your environment. Make the cues of good habits obvious and visible.
 
 The 2nd Law: Make It Attractive 2.1: Use temptation bundling. Pair an action you want to do with an action you need to do.
 
 2.2: Join a culture where your desired behavior is the normal behavior.
 
 2.3: Create a motivation ritual. Do something you enjoy immediately before a difficult habit.
 
 The 3rd Law: Make It Easy 3.1: Reduce friction. Decrease the number of steps between you and your good habits.
 
 3.2: Prime the environment. Prepare your environment to make future actions easier.
 
 3.3: Master the decisive moment. Optimize the small choices that deliver outsized impact.
 
 3.4: Use the Two-Minute Rule. Downscale your habits until they can be done in two minutes or less.
 
 3.5: Automate your habits. Invest in technology and onetime purchases that lock in future behavior.
 
 The 4th Law: Make It Satisfying HOW TO BREAK A BAD HABIT Inversion of the 1st Law: Make It Invisible 1.5: Reduce exposure. Remove the cues of your bad habits from your environment.
 
 Inversion of the 2nd Law: Make It Unattractive 2.4: Reframe your mind-set. Highlight the benefits of avoiding your bad habits.
 
