journaling habit by specifically writing less than he felt like. He always stopped journaling before it seemed like a hassle. Ernest Hemingway believed in similar advice for any kind of writing. “The best way is to always stop when you are going good,” he said.
 
 Strategies like this work for another reason, too: they reinforce the identity you want to build. If you show up at the gym five days in a row—even if it’s just for two minutes—you are casting votes for your new identity. You’re not worried about getting in shape. You’re focused on becoming the type of person who doesn’t miss workouts. You’re taking the smallest action that confirms the type of person you want to be.
 
 We rarely think about change this way because everyone is consumed by the end goal. But one push-up is better than not exercising. One minute of guitar practice is better than none at all. One minute of reading is better than never picking up a book. It’s better to do less than you hoped than to do nothing at all.
 
 At some point, once you’ve established the habit and you’re showing up each day, you can combine the Two-Minute Rule with a technique we call habit shaping to scale your habit back up toward your ultimate goal. Start by mastering the first two minutes of the smallest version of the behavior. Then, advance to an intermediate step and repeat the process—focusing on just the first two minutes and mastering that stage before moving on to the next level.
 
 Eventually, you’ll end up with the habit you had originally hoped to build while still keeping your focus where it should be: on the first two minutes of the behavior.
 
 EXAMPLES OF HABIT SHAPING Becoming an Early Riser Phase 1: Be home by 10 p.m. every night.
 
 Phase 2: Have all devices (TV, phone, etc.) turned off by 10 p.m. every night.
 
 Phase 3: Be in bed by 10 p.m. every night (reading a book, talking with your partner).
 
 Phase 4: Lights off by 10 p.m. every night.
 
 Phase 5: Wake up at 6 a.m. every day.
 
 Becoming Vegan Phase 1: Start eating vegetables at each meal.
 
 Phase 2: Stop eating animals with four legs (cow, pig, lamb, etc.).
 
 Phase 3: Stop eating animals with two legs (chicken, turkey, etc.).
 
 Phase 4: Stop eating animals with no legs (fish, clams, scallops, etc.).
 
 Phase 5: Stop eating all animal products (eggs, milk, cheese).
 
