Here are a few ways you can redesign your environment and make the cues for your preferred habits more obvious: If you want to remember to take your medication each night, put your pill bottle directly next to the faucet on the bathroom counter.
 
 If you want to practice guitar more frequently, place your guitar stand in the middle of the living room.
 
 If you want to remember to send more thank-you notes, keep a stack of stationery on your desk.
 
 If you want to drink more water, fill up a few water bottles each morning and place them in common locations around the house.
 
 If you want to make a habit a big part of your life, make the cue a big part of your environment. The most persistent behaviors usually have multiple cues.
 
 Consider how many different ways a smoker could be prompted to pull out a cigarette: driving in the car, seeing a friend smoke, feeling stressed at work, and so on.
 
 The same strategy can be employed for good habits. By sprinkling triggers throughout your surroundings, you increase the odds that you’ll think about your habit throughout the day. Make sure the best choice is the most obvious one.
 
 Making a better decision is easy and natural when the cues for good habits are right in front of you.
 
 Environment design is powerful not only because it influences how we engage with the world but also because we rarely do it. Most people live in a world others have created for them. But you can alter the spaces where you live and work to increase your exposure to positive cues and reduce your exposure to negative ones. Environment design allows you to take back control and become the architect of your life. Be the designer of your world and not merely the consumer of it.
 
 THE CONTEXT IS THE CUE The cues that trigger a habit can start out very specific, but over time your habits become associated not with a single trigger but with the entire context surrounding the behavior.
 
 For example, many people drink more in social situations than they would ever drink alone. The trigger is rarely a single cue, but rather the whole situation:
 
