what they expect the outcome to be. They review their choices at the end of each month or year to see where they were correct and where they went wrong.* Improvement is not just about learning habits, it’s also about fine-tuning them.
 
 Reflection and review ensures that you spend your time on the right things and make course corrections whenever necessary—like Pat Riley adjusting the effort of his players on a nightly basis. You don’t want to keep practicing a habit if it becomes ineffective.
 
 Personally, I employ two primary modes of reflection and review. Each December, I perform an Annual Review, in which I reflect on the previous year. I tally my habits for the year by counting up how many articles I published, how many workouts I put in, how many new places I visited, and more.* Then, I reflect on my progress (or lack thereof) by answering three questions: 1. What went well this year?
 
 2. What didn’t go so well this year?
 
 3. What did I learn?
 
 Six months later, when summer rolls around, I conduct an Integrity Report.
 
 Like everyone, I make a lot of mistakes. My Integrity Report helps me realize where I went wrong and motivates me to get back on course. I use it as a time to revisit my core values and consider whether I have been living in accordance with them. This is when I reflect on my identity and how I can work toward being the type of person I wish to become.* My yearly Integrity Report answers three questions: 1. What are the core values that drive my life and work?
 
 2. How am I living and working with integrity right now?
 
 3. How can I set a higher standard in the future?
 
 These two reports don’t take very long—just a few hours per year—but they are crucial periods of refinement. They prevent the gradual slide that happens when I don’t pay close attention. They provide an annual reminder to revisit my desired identity and consider how my habits are helping me become the type of person I wish to be. They indicate when I should upgrade my habits and take on new challenges and when I should dial my efforts back and focus on the fundamentals.
 
