Voting good as strongly as anyone else because it’s in his interests This seems less obvious when a state’s constitution conto do so. Even when he sells his vote for money, he does tains two or more orders of citizens, like ancient Rome’s not extinguish the general will in himself, but only dodges nobility and plebeians, whose quarrels often disturbed the around it. The wrong thing he does is to changethequestion, comitia [see page 61], even in the best days of the Republic.
 
 answering a different question from the one he was asked. But the exception is apparent rather than real; because in Instead of giving a vote that says that case the inherent defect in the body politic brings it ‘It is to the state’s advantage that such-and-such about that there are, so to speak, two states in one, and should happen’, what’s not true of the two together is true of each separately.
 
 he says through his vote Indeed, even in the most stormy times, the plebiscites of the ‘It is to x’s advantage that such-and-such should people—as long as the Senate didn’t get involved—always happen’, went through quietly and by large majorities: the citizens where x is some man or faction. The law of public order— had only one interest, so the people had only one will.
 
 ·i.e. the thing that it matters most to have happen·—in At the other end of the political spectrum, unanimity assemblies is not so much •maintaining the general will as circles back: that’s when the citizens, having fallen into •ensuring that it is consulted and that it answers. servitude, no longer have any liberty or any will. Fear I could offer many reflections on the simple right of voting and flattery then convert •voting into •acclamation; no-one in every act of sovereignty—a right that no-one can take from considers issues any more; all they do is to fawn ·on those in the citizens—and also on the right of stating views, making power· or to curse ·their rivals·. Such was the vile manner in proposals, dividing and discussing, which the government is whichthesenateexpressedits‘views’undertheEmperors. It always most careful to leave solely to its members; but this did so sometimes with absurd precautions: Tacitus reports important subject would need a book to itself—I can’t say that under the emperor Otho the senators, in heaping curses everything in this one. on Vitellius, arranged to make a deafening noise so that if Vitellius ever became their master he wouldn’t know what each of them had said!
 
 2. Voting What rules should govern the methods of counting votes You [seeGlossary] can see from the last chapter that a pretty and comparing opinions? That depends on the factors I have good indication of the current state of mœurs [see Glossary] been discussing, i.e. on how easy or hard it is to discover and the health of the body politic is given by the facts about what the general will is, and on how far along the state is in how general business is managed by it.... The nearer its decline.
 
 opinion comes to unanimity, the greater is the dominance There’s only one law that from its very nature needs of the general will; whereas long debates, dissensions and unanimous consent, namely the social compact; for civil tumult proclaim •the domination by particular interests and association is the most voluntary of all acts. Every man is •the decline of the state. bornfree andhis own master, so no-oneon anypretext—any pretext—can make any man a subject without his consent.
 
 55 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 42.
 
