The social compact 5. We must always go back to a first agreement 6. The social compact Let us take it that men have reached the point at which the obstacles to their survival in the state of nature overpower [For‘agreement’seeGlossary.] Even if I granted everything that I each individual’s resources for maintaining himself in that have refuted up to here, the supporters of despotism would state. So this primitive condition can’t go on; the human be no better off. Ruling a society will always be a quite race will perish unless it changes its manner of existence.
 
 different thing from subduing a multitude. If any number of Now, men can’t create new forces; they can only •bring scattered individuals were successively enslaved by one man, together ones that already exist, and •steer them. So their all I can see there is a master and his slaves, and certainly only way to preserve themselves is to unite a number of not a people and its ruler. It’s a •cluster, if you will, but forces so that they are jointly powerful enough to deal with not an •association; there’s no public good there, and no the obstacles. They have to bring these forces into play in body politic. This man may have enslaved half the world such a way that they act together in a single thrust.
 
 but he is still only an individual; his interest, apart from For forces to add up in this way, many people have to that of others, is never anything but a purely private interest.
 
 work together. But each man’s force and liberty are what he When this man dies, the empire he leaves behind him will chiefly needs for his own survival; so how can he put them remains scattered and without unity, like an oak that falls into this collective effort without harming his own interests into a fire and dissolves into a heap of ashes when the fire and neglecting the care he owes to himself? This difficulty, has consumed it.
 
 in the version of it that arises for my present subject, can be put like this: A people, says Grotius, can give itself to a king; so he Find a form of association that will bring the whole must hold that a people is a people before it gives itself to a common force to bear on defending and protecting king. This gift is itself a civic act, which has to arise from each associate’s person and goods, doing this in such public deliberation. Before we examine (2) the act by which a way that each of them, while uniting himself with a people gives itself to a king, let’s examine (1) the act by all, still obeys only himself and remains as free as which the people became a people; for (1) must occur before before.’ (2), so that (1) is the true foundation of society.
 
 There’sthebasicproblemthatissolvedbythesocialcontract.
 
 Indeed, if there were no prior agreement, what would give [Thisisthework’sfirstoccurrenceofthatphrase.] the minority any obligation to submit to the choice of the The clauses of this contract are so settled by the nature majority (unless the election was unanimous)? A hundred of the act that the slightest change would make them null men want to have a master; what gives them the right to vote and void; so that although they may never have been explicon behalf of ten who don’t? The law of majority voting is itself itly stated, they are everywhere the same and everywhere something established by agreement, and it presupposes tacitly accepted and recognised, until the social compact [see that on at least one occasion there was a unanimous vote. Glossary] is violated and each individual regains his •original 6 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 16.
 
