The limits of the sovereign power gives the body politic absolute power over all its members; general in its object as well as its essence; i.e. must and I repeat that it is this power which, under the direction come from all and apply to all; of the general will, is called ‘sovereignty’. and •that when it is directed to some particular and determiBut as well as the public person, we have to consider the nate object it loses its natural rightness, because in such a private persons who compose it, and whose life and liberty case we—·the joint owners of the general will·—are judging are naturally independent of it. So now there’s the matter of of something foreign to us, so that we don’t have any genuine clearly distinguishing standards to guide us.
 
 •the citizens’ rights from the sovereign’s,7 and Indeed, as soon as a question of particular fact or right •the citizens’ duties as subjects from their natural arises in some context that hasn’t already been regulated rights as men. by a general agreement, the matter becomes contentious.
 
 Agreed: each man alienates by the social compact only It is a case—·like a trial in a court of law·—where the the part of his powers, goods and liberty that it is important individuals concerned are on one side and the public are forthecommunitytocontrol. Butsomethingelseshouldalso on the other; but I can’t see what law should be followed or be agreed: the sovereign is sole judge of what is important. what judge should decide. Couldn’t we ask the general will Any service a citizen can give to the state should be for an explicit decision on this matter? That is an absurd performed as soon as the sovereign demands it; but the proposal: the deliverance of the general will can only be the sovereign on its side can’t impose upon its subjects any conclusion of one of the sides and will therefore be seen by fetters that are useless to the community. Indeed it can’t the other as merely an external and particular will that is even want to do so, because ·there’s no reason for it to want subject to error and has on this occasion fallen into injustice.
 
 to, and· ‘Nothing can happen without a cause’ applies under Thus, just as a particular will can’t represent the general the law of reason as much as it does under the law of nature. will, the general will....—just because it is general—can’t The undertakings that bind us to the social body are pronounce on a particular man or fact. When for instance obligatory only because they go both ways; and their nature the Athenian populace nominated or displaced its rulers, issuchthatinfulfillingthemwecan’tworkforotherswithout decreeing honours for one and penalties for another, and working for ourselves. Why is the general will always in the by hosts of particular decrees exercised all the functions of right,andwhydo•allcontinuallywillthehappinessof•each? government indiscriminately, it no longer had a general will It can only be because there’s not a man who doesn’t think in the strict sense; it was acting no longer as sovereign, but of ‘each’ as meaning him, and considers himself in voting for as magistrate [seeGlossary]. This will seem contrary to current all. This shows that equality of rights, and the idea of justice views; but you should give me time to expound my own.
 
 arising from it, originate in •the preference each man gives to So you can see that what makes the will general is less himself, and accordingly •in human nature. It shows •that thenumberofvoicesthanthecommoninterestunitingthem; the general will, to be really general, must be for under this system each person necessarily submits to 7 Attentive readers, please don’t rush in with the charge that I am contradicting myself. The poverty of the language has forced this on me; but wait andsee.
 
 15 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 24.
 
