Deputies or representatives 15. Deputies or representatives •no-one is interested in what happens there, and because As soon as public service stops being the chief business of •it can be seen in advance that the general will won’t the citizens, and they prefer to serve with their money rather prevail, and lastly because than with their persons, the state is not far from its collapse.
 
 •domestic cares are all-absorbing.
 
 They are needed to march out to war? they pay troops and Good laws lead to the making of better ones; bad ones bring stay at home. They are needed to meet in council? they about worse. As soon as anyone says of the affairs of the name deputies and stay at home. By force of laziness and state ‘What do I care?’, the state may be given up for lost.
 
 money, they end up with soldiers to enslave their country The lukewarmness of patriotism, the activity of private and representatives to sell it.
 
 interest, the vastness of states, conquest and the abuse It is through the hustle of commerce and the trades, of government suggested the method of having deputies through the greedy concern for profit, and through softness or representatives of the people in the national assemblies.
 
 and love of amenities, that personal services are replaced by Somemeninsomecountrieshavepresumedtocallthese‘the money. Men surrender a part of their profits so as to have Third Estate’; ·notice third·!—putting the individual interest time to increase them at leisure. ·And they don’t see how of the nobility and the clergy first and second, and the public dangerous this is·. Give money and before long you’ll be in interest third.
 
 chains! This word ‘finance’ is slave talk; you won’t encounter Sovereigntycan’tberepresented,forthesamereasonthat it in the city-state. In a truly free country the citizens do it can’t be alienated [seeGlossary]; what sovereignty essentially everything with their own muscles, and nothing with money; is is the general will, and a will can’t be represented; somefar from paying to be excused from their duties, they would thing purporting to speak for the will of x either is the will of even pay to be allowed to perform them. My view on this x or it is something else; there is no intermediate possibility, topic is far from the common one: I regard forced labour as ·i.e. something that isn’t exactly x’s will but isn’t outright not less opposed to liberty than taxes are. [The French is taxes; it x’s will either·. The people’s deputies, therefore, can’t be its couldmeansomethinglike‘feesimposedbythegovernment’.] representatives: they are merely its agents, and can’t settle Thebetterastate’sconstitutionis, themorepublicaffairs anything by themselves. Any ‘law’ that the populace hasn’t outrank private concerns in the minds of the citizens. There ratified in person is null and void—it isn’t a law. The English won’tevenbe asmanyprivateconcerns·asthereareinaless populace regards itself as free, but that’s quite wrong; it is well constituted state·, because the aggregate of the common free only during the election of members of parliament. As happiness provides a bigger proportion of the happiness of soon as they are elected, the populace goes into slavery, and each individual, so that there’s less for him to do in taking is nothing. The use it makes of its short moments of liberty care of his own needs and desires. In a well-ordered city shows that it deserves to lose its liberty!
 
 every man flies to the assemblies; under a bad government The idea of representation is modern; it comes to us from no-one wants to take a step to get there, because feudal government, from that iniquitous and absurd system that degrades humanity and dishonours the name of man.
 
 49 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 315.
 
