The source of governmental variety Now,thetotalforceofthegovernmentisalwaysthatofthe This granted, if the whole government is in the hands state, so it doesn’t vary; from which it follows that the more of one man, his particular will is all of a piece with the of this force the government spends on its own members corporate will ·of the government·, so that the latter—·the the less it has left to employ on the whole people. Thus, the will of the government concentrated in a single man·—is at more magistrates there are, the weaker the government is. its highest possible degree of intensity. But •how much force This principle is really basic, so we should do our best to get a government employs depends on the •strength of its will, clear about it. and the absolute force of the government is invariable; so it In the person of the magistrate we can distinguish three follows that the most active government is that of one man.
 
 essentially different wills: (i) the private will of the individual, Suppose we go in the opposite direction, letting (a) the tending only to his personal advantage; (ii) the common will legislative authority be (b) the government—i.e. giving the of the magistrates, which relates purely to the advantage role of (b) prince to (a) the sovereign—thereby turning (c) of the prince (call this ‘corporate will’, which is general in all the citizens into magistrates: then (b) the corporate will, relation to the government and particular in relation to the being identified with (a) the general will, won’t have any more state of which the government is a part); and (iii) the will activity than (a) does, leaving (c) the particular will as strong of the people, i.e. the sovereign will, which is general both as it can possibly be. Thus, the government, having always in relation to the state regarded as the whole, and to the the same absolute force, will be at the lowest point of its government regarded as a part of the whole. relative force or activity.
 
 In a perfect act of legislation, the individual or particular These relations are beyond question, and other considerwillshould beat zero; thegovernment’scorporate will should ations still further confirm them. We can see, for instance, be thoroughly subordinate; and the general or sovereign will, that each magistrate is more active in the body to which he therefore, should always predominate and should be the sole belongs than each citizen is in the body to which he belongs, guide of all the rest. and that consequently each particular will has much more It’s just a fact of nature that these different wills become influence on the acts of the government than on those of more active the more they are concentrated. Thus, the gen- the sovereign; for each magistrate is almost always assigned eralwillisalwaystheweakest, thecorporatewillsecond, and to some governmental function, whereas each citizen on the individual will strongest of all: so that in the government his own exercises no function of sovereignty. Furthermore, each member is first of all the bigger the state grows, the more its real force increases, •himself, ·answerable only to his own personal needs though not in direct proportion to its increase in size; but and desires·, then when the state remains the same, it won’t do the magistracy •a magistrate, ·answerable to the needs and duties of any good to incease its numbers, because its force is that of the magistracy, the government·, and then the state, i.e. stays the same....
 
 •a citizen, ·answerable to the needs of the state· Also, it’s certain •that the more people are put in charge —in exactly the reverse order to what the social system of some project, the longer it takes to get it going; •that requires. in giving too much weight to prudence one doesn’t make 32 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 33.
 
