Tribunes Naturally the comitia curiata fell into disrepute, and even Sothecitizenswereprovidedwithtabletswithwhicheach seditious persons abstained from using this method because man could vote without anyone knowing how he voted: new is would too clearly show what they were up to. There’s no procedures were also introduced for collecting the tablets, question about it: the whole majesty of the Roman people for counting votes, for comparing numbers, etc.; yet despite lay solely in the comitia centuriata, the only comitia that all this, the good faith of the officers charged with these included everyone; for the comitia curiata excluded the rural functions.... was often suspect. Finally, to prevent intrigues tribes and the comitia tributa excluded the senate and the and trafficking in votes, edicts were issued; but their very nobility. number proves how useless they were.
 
 As for the method of taking the vote, among the ancient Towards the end of the Republic, it was often necesRomans that was as simple as their mœurs, though Sparta’s sary to bring in special procedures in order to make up was even simpler. Each man declared his vote aloud, and for the inadequacy of the laws. Sometimes miracles were a clerk duly wrote it down; the majority in each tribe deter- supposed—·i.e. the authorities reported miraculous events mined the vote of the tribe, the majority of the tribes that of that pointed to the need for some political question to be the people; similarly with curiae and centuries. This custom answered one way rather than another·—but this method, was good as long as honesty was triumphant among the while it might deceive the populace, couldn’t deceive those citizens, and each man was ashamed to vote publicly in who governed it. Sometimes an assembly ·for voting· was favour of an unjust proposal or an unworthy person; but called together suddenly, leaving the candidates with no when the people grew corrupt and votes were bought, it was time to form their factions. Sometimes, when it was seen fitting that voting should be secret so as to deter purchasers that the people were already primed to vote ·in what the who wouldn’t trust ·that the votes they had bought would be authorities thought to be· the wrong way, the entire meeting delivered· and to give rogues a way of not being traitors. was allowed to play itself out in talk, ·with no vote being (I know that Cicero attacks this change ·to secrecy in taken·. But in the end ambition always got away. The most voting· and gives it some of the blame for the ruin of the incredible fact of all is that in the midst of all these abuses Republic. I feel the weight that Cicero’s authority must carry this enormous populace relied on its ancient regulations and on a point like this, but I can’t agree with him; I hold, on the wentaheadelectingmagistrates, passinglaws, judgingcases, contrary, that the destruction of a state will be hastened if and carrying through public and private business, doing all changeslikethisarenot made. Justastheregimenofhealth this almost as easily as the senate itself could have done.
 
 doesn’t suit the sick, it’s wrong to try to govern a corrupted people by laws that would be right for a good people. There’s 5. Tribunes no better evidence for this thesis than the long life of the Republic of Venice. It still exists—or anyway a shadow of it When an exact proportion can’t be established between the does—solely because its laws are suitable only for wicked constituent parts of a state, or when the relation of one part men.) to another is constantly being altered by some cause that can’t be stopped, a special kind of governmental entity is 63 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 45.
 
