The general will is indestructible BOOK 4 1. The general will is indestructible to believe, it makes them smile. They don’t realize that Cromwell would have been sentenced to hard labour by the As long as a number of men gathered together regard them- people of Berne, and the Duc de Beaufort would have been selves as a single body, they have only a single will, which put in a reformatory by the Genevese!
 
 is concerned with the survival and well-being of all of them. But when the social bond begins to slacken and the In this case, the state’s machinery is all vigorous and simple state to grow weak, when particular interests start to make and its rules clear and luminous; there’s no tangle of hidden themselves felt and the smaller societies begin to influence agendas; the common good is always obvious, and only good the larger one, the common interest changes and comes sense is needed to perceive it. Peace, unity and equality are to have opponents; votes are no longer unanimous; the enemies of political subtleties. Simple straightforward men general will is no longer the will of all; contradictory views are hard to deceive because of their simplicity; lures and are presented and debates start up; and the best advice isn’t ingenious excuses don’t work with them—they aren’t even accepted without question. Finally, subtleenoughtobedupes! Whenamongtheworld’shappiest •when the nearly ruined state exists only in an illusory people we see a group of peasants gathered under an oak and empty form, when to regulate the state’s affairs, and always acting wisely, can •in every heart the social bond is broken, and when we help scorning the sophistication of other nations, which •themeanestinterestbrazenlyhelpsitselftothesacred put so much skill and so much mystery into making make name of ‘public good’, themselves illustrious and wretched?
 
 the general will falls silent: all men, guided by secret motives, A state governed like that doesn’t need many laws; and stop giving their views as citizens (it’s as though there had when new ones are needed, everyone will see that they are. never been a state); and wicked decrees directed solely to The first man to propose them is merely putting into words private interest get passed off as ‘laws’.
 
 what they have all been thinking, and there’s no place here Does it follow from this that the general will is extermifor deals or for eloquence in order to get passed into law nated or corrupted? Not at all: it continues to be constant, something that each of them has already decided to do as unalterable and pure; but it is pushed aside by other wills soon as he’s sure that the rest will act with him.
 
 that invade its territory. Each man, in distinguishing his Theorists are struck by the impossibility of applying such interests from the common interest, sees clearly that he procedures to any state that they have seen; but they go can’t entirely separate them, ·i.e. that his pursuit of his wrong about this, because the only states they have looked own interests will have some negative effect on the common at are ones that were badly constituted from the beginning. good·; but he sees •his share in the public misfortunes as When they picture all the absurdities that a clever rascal or negligible compared with •the private good that he is laying a charming speaker might get the people of Paris or London claim to. Apart from this private good, he wills the general 54 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 42.
 
