Elections reached, a majority of one vote should be enough. Of these distinction; it confirms it. The mixed form of election suits a two rules, (i) seems more in harmony with the laws, and (ii) mixed government. ·And the government of Venice is indeed seems more in harmony with practical affairs. Anyway, it’s mixed·; for it is an error to think it is a real aristocracy.
 
 the combination of them that does the best job of deciding Granted, the populace has no share in the government; what size of majority a given question needs. but in Venice the nobility is the populace. That includes a host of poor younger sons—·and younger sons of younger sons—of noble families·; they never get near to having any 3. Elections position in the government, and all their ‘nobility’ brings In the elections of the prince and the magistrates (which them is •the silly right to be addressed as ‘Your Excellency’ are, I repeat, complex acts) there are two possible ways to and •the right to sit in the Great Council—which has as proceed, •choosing and •drawing lots. Both have been used many members as our General Council at Geneva, so that in various republics, and a highly complicated mixture of the its ‘illustrious’ members have no more privileges than do two still survives in the election of the Doge at Venice. our plain citizens. It is indisputable that although the ’Election by lottery’, says Montesquieu, ‘is democratic in two republics are extremely different in many ways, the nature’. I agree that it is, but how is it? ‘The lottery’, he goes bourgeoisie of Geneva exactly matches the nobility of Venice; on, ‘is a way of electing that isn’t unfair to anyone; it leaves our natives and inhabitants match the townsmen and the each citizen with a reasonable hope of serving his country.’ people of Venice; our peasants match the ·Venetian· subjects Those aren’t reasons! on the mainland ·as distinct from the ones who live on If we bear in mind that the election of rulers is something the cluster of islands that constitute the historic heart of done by government, not by sovereignty, we’ll see ·the real Venice·; and whatever way you look at it (setting aside its reason· why the lottery is the more natural for democracy—a size), Venice’s government is no more aristocratic than our form of government where the administration is better in own. The whole difference is that we have no need to use proportion as the number of its acts is small. the lottery, because our rulers are not appointed for life as In any real democracy, magistracy isn’t a benefit—it’s Venice’s are.
 
 a burdensome responsibility that can’t fairly be imposed Election by lottery would have few drawbacks in a real on one individual rather than another. If the individual is democracy, where it would hardly matter who was chosen selected by a lottery, the selection is being made by the because all the people would be on a par as regards mœurs law that establishes the lottery; but the law doesn’t lose and talents as well as principles and fortunes. But I have its universality by itself picking out one individual, and no already said that there aren’t any democracies. [Theendof3:4 choice has been made that depends on any human will. onpage34] In an aristocracy, the prince chooses the prince, the When choice and lottery are combined, positions that government is preserved by itself, and that’s the right kind require special talents, such as military posts, should be of situation for voting. filled by choice; the lottery serves for the likes of judicial The way they elect the Doge of Venice doesn’t squash this offices, in which good sense, justice, and integrity are all 57 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 44.
 
