Protecting the government from take-overs [TheformerofthosetwoquestionsarisesstraightoutofwhatRousseau legitimately and in accordance with the principles I have laid hasjustbeensaying,butthelatterquestiondoesn’t. Weknowhisthesis down.
 
 that the populace—the totality of the people—is the •sovereign through theexerciseofitsgeneralwill,andisthesetof•subjectsbecauseoftheir 18. How to protect the government from being obligation to obey the government. And we recall that back at page 33 taken over heseemedtocountenancetheideathatthegoverningbodymightreach the upper limit of numerousness by admitting every citizen into it. He WhatIhavejustsaidconfirmschapter16, andmakesitclear raisesthematteragainherebecause,itseems,hethinksithelpshimto •that the act that institutes government is not a contract, answertheformerofthetwoquestions.] but a law; •that the recipients of the executive power are At this point we encounter one of the astonishing prop- not the people’s masters, but its officers; •that it can set erties of the body politic, by means of which it reconciles them up and pull them down when it likes; •that for them apparently contradictory operations: this is done by a sud- there is no question of contract, but of obedience; and •that den conversion of •sovereignty into •democracy, so that with in taking over the functions the state has assigned to them no change that anyone could see and purely through a new they’re only doing their duty as citizens, without having the relation of all to all, the citizens become magistrates and any right to challenge the conditions.
 
 pass from general acts to particular acts, from legislation to So when the populace sets up a hereditary government— the execution of the law. whether monarchical within one family or aristocratic within This change of relationship isn’t a theoretician’s subtlety one ·social· class—it isn’t making any promises. All it’s doing with no examples out there in the world. It happens every is to give the administration a certain form, provisionally, to day in the English parliament, where on certain occasions last until it pleases the people to make some other arrangethe Lower House turns itself into a ‘committee of the whole’ ment.
 
 so as to have a better discussion of affairs, so that from It’s true that such changes are always dangerous, and being at one moment a sovereign court it becomes at the that an established government shouldn’t be touched unless next a mere commission, ·an organ of government·; then it it has come into conflict with the public good; but this is reports the upshot of these discussions to itself as House just a note of warning, a maxim of policy; it isn’t a legal rule, of Commons, where it debates under one name what it has and the state is no more bound to leave civil authority in the already settled under another. hands of its rulers than it is to leave military authority in the That’s the special advantage of democratic government— hands of its generals.
 
 that it can be brought into existence by a simple act of the Care should be taken in such cases to observe all the general will. And then this provisional government remains formalities that are required if a regular and legitimate act is in power, if that’s what was decided, or else it, acting in the to be distinguished from a seditious tumult, and the will of name of the sovereign, establishes the government that is a whole people distinguished from the clamour of a faction.
 
 prescribed by law; and thus the whole thing is done by the ‘Care should be taken’—it would be impossible to take too rules. That’s the only possible way to set up government much care! [This next bit expands something that Rousseau wrote 52 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 318.
 
