Classifying laws coast-line, cover the sea with ships and develop trade and 12. Classifying laws navigation; your state will have a life that is brilliant and short! If on your coast the sea washes nothing but almost If the whole thing is to be set in order—i.e. if the public thing inaccessible rocks, settle for a primitive way of life based is to be put into the best possible shape—there are various on fish-eating; you’ll have a quieter life, perhaps a better relations to be taken account of. [Rousseauusedchosepublique one, certainly a happier one. In short, every nation has, = ‘public thing’ expecting his readers to know that the Latin for this is along with principles that all nations have, something that respublica = ‘republic’.] (1) There is the action of the complete gives them a particular application in its case, and makes its body upon itself, i.e. the relation of the whole to the whole, legislation strictly its own. Thus, among the Jews long ago of the sovereign to the state. This relation is composed of andmorerecentlyamongtheArabs, themainthinghasbeen the relations among the parts of the whole, as we shall see religion, among the Athenians literature, at Carthage and in due course.
 
 Tyre commerce, at Rhodes shipping, at Sparta war, at Rome The laws that regulate this relation are called political virtue. The author of The Spirit of the Laws [Montesquieu] has laws, and they deserve their name ‘fundamental laws’—if shown with many examples the skills the legislator uses in they are well done. ·What does their quality have to do with directing the constitution in one or other of these directions. their status as fundamental? Well·, if for each state there’s only one good way of organising things, the populace that What makes the constitution of a state really solid and has found it should stick to it, ·which means that for them it lasting is its having a population whose members behave is fundamental·; but if the established organisation is bad, so decently to one another that natural relations are always why should laws that prevent it from being good be regarded in harmony with the laws, so that all the law does is, so as fundamental? Actually a people is always in a position to to speak, to assure, accompany and adjust those natural change its laws. Even if they are good laws? Yes; for if the relations. But if the legislator aims wrongly and adopts •a populace chooses to do itself harm, who can have a right to principle other than •the one that is rooted in the nature of stop it?
 
 things— (2) Then there’s the relation of the members (a) to one •his makes for servitude while the natural one makes another or (b) to the body as a whole. There should be as for liberty, or little as possible of (2a) and as much as possible of (2b). Each •his makes for riches, while the other makes for citizen would then be perfectly independent of all the rest, population-growth, and at the same time very dependent on the city; and these •his makes for peace, while the other makes for contwo results are brought about always by the same means, quest because only (2b) the strength of the state can secure (2a) —the laws will gradually lose their influence, the constitution the liberty of its members. From this second relation arise will alter, and the state will have no rest from trouble till it civil laws.
 
 is either destroyed or changed, and invincible nature has (3) We may consider also a third kind of relation between re-asserted its power. the individual and the law, the relation of •disobedience to 27 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 212.
 
