Civic religion constitution; although the law does not regulate •mœurs, it’s ignoring the bad man’s proposal, permitting the drunkards to be dislegislation that gives •them birth. When legislation grows gusting. Before coming to that, he has offered another example (not an weak, mœurs degenerate; but in such cases the judgment of ancientone)ofthatstretch.] the censors won’t succeed where the force of the laws has The use of seconds in duels, which had been carried to failed. wild extremes in the French kingdom, was done away with It follows, then, that censorship may be useful for pre- merely by these words in a royal edict: ‘As for those who are serving mœurs but never for restoring them. Set up censors cowards enough to call upon seconds...’. This judgment, while the laws are vigorous; as soon as they weaken, all hope getting in ahead of •the public’s judgment, immediately is gone; no legitimate item retains its force when the laws decided •it. But when those same edicts tried to pronounce have lost theirs. duelling itself as cowardly (and so it is!), the public didn’t The censorship upholds mœurs by preventing opinions take this seriously because its mind was already made up from growing corrupt, by preserving their rectitude by apply- the other way.
 
 ing them wisely, and sometimes even by fixing them when they are still uncertain. [In that sentence, the ‘they’ in question 8. Civic religion seemstobemœurs,notopinions.] I have said elsewhere....that as public opinion isn’t At first men had no kings except the gods, and no governsubject to any constraint, there needn’t be any trace of it in ment except theocracy. They reasoned like Caligula—·a the tribunal set up to represent it. It’s impossible to admire Roman emperor who thought he was a god·—and at that too much the skill with which the Romans and (even more) period the reasoning was correct. Men’s thoughts and the Spartans used this resource, which we moderns have feelings have to go through a long period of change before wholly lost. they can bring themselves to take their equals as masters Whenamanwithbadmœursmadeagoodproposalinthe and to expect to profit by doing so.
 
 Spartan Council, the Ephors ignored it and arranged for the Simply from the fact that God was put in charge of every same proposal to be made by a virtuous citizen. What a dis- political society, it followed that there were as many gods as graceforoneman, andwhatanhonourfortheother, without peoples. Twopeoplesthatwerestrangerstooneanother, and either of them being blamed or praised! Certain drunkards nearly always enemies, couldn’t go on recognising the same from Samos....polluted the tribunal of the Ephors; the next master for long; two armies giving battle couldn’t obey the day a public edict gave Samians permission to be disgusting. same leader. So national divisions led to polytheism, which An actual punishment would have been less severe than in turn led to •theological and •civil intolerance—which, as such a ‘permission’! When Sparta has pronounced on what I’ll show later, are essentially the same.
 
 is or isn’t right, Greece doesn’t appeal against its judgments. The Greeks’ liking for discovering their gods among •the [Intheprecedingparagraph,Rousseauisevidentlystretchingthenotion barbarians arose from their regarding themselves as the of censorship [see Glossary] as ancient Rome had it, to cover anything natural sovereigns of •those peoples. But it’s our own times official that nudges or hooks into public opinion in some oblique way: that have produced the line of ‘scholarship’ that is based on 67 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 
