The law neither the senate nor the consuls ever offered to pardon someone tells us what a law of nature is, that won’t bring us ·anyone·; nor did the populace, though it sometimes revoked any nearer to knowing what a law of the state is.
 
 its own decision. Frequent pardons are an announcement I have already said [page 15] that there is no general that before long crime will pay, and anyone can see where will directed to a particular object. [Rousseau’s proof of that, that leads. But I feel my heart protesting and restraining which follows, is severely compressed. The present version eases it out my pen; let us leave these questions to the just man who in ways that the ·small dots· convention can’t easily signify.] We are has never offended and would himself never stand in need to suppose that the general will of populace x dictates that of pardon! (for example) individual person y is to be given a pension.
 
 Either y is a member of x or he isn’t. (i) If he isn’t, then x’s will doesn’t count as a general will in relation to him—it 6. The law may have absolutely nothing to do with y’s own will. (ii) By the social compact we have given the body politic If y is a member of x, i.e. a part of x, then x’s will that y •existence and •life; now it is up to legislation to give it receive a pension is a relation between whole and part that •movement and •will. The basic act that forms the body and makes them two separate beings, •x-without-y and •y. But pulls it together does nothing to settle what it must do in x-without-y isn’t the whole; and while this relation persists order to survive. it’s a relation between two unequal parts; and it follows that It’s the nature of things that makes an item good and in the will of one is no longer in any respect general in relation conformity with order—human agreements don’t come into to the other.
 
 it. All justice comes from God, who is its sole source; but if Butwhenthewholepeopledecreesforthewholepeople,it we knew how to draw it from that high source we wouldn’t is ·not looking outside itself, but· considering only itself; and need government or laws! No doubt there is a universal if a relation is then formed, it is ·not between two separate justice emanating from reason alone, but this justice can objects, but only· between two aspects of a single entire be admitted among us only if it is mutual. In the absence object, with no need to split it into two parts. In that case the of natural sanctions....the laws of justice are ineffective matter about which the decree is made is, like the decreeing among men.... Agreements and laws are needed to join will, general. This act is what I call a law.
 
 rights to duties and relate justice to its object. In the state of When I say that the object of laws is always general, I nature where everything is common, I don’t owe anything to mean that law considers subjects collectively and considers someone to whom I haven’t promised anything; I recognise kinds of actions, never a particular person or action. Thus as belonging to others only what is of no use to me. It’s not the law can decree that there shall be privileges, but it can’t like that in the state of society, where all rights are fixed by name anyone who is to get them. It can set up different law. classes of citizens, and even stipulate the qualifications for But what, when we come down to it, is a law? As long as belonging to each of these classes, but it can’t pick out any we settle for attaching only metaphysical ideas to the word, individuals as belonging to this or that class. It can establish we’ll go on arguing without understanding one another. If a monarchy with hereditary succession, but it can’t choose 18 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 26.
 
