Censorship The early Roman use of this supreme magistracy— when the emergency is over, the dictatorship becomes either dictatorship—wasn’t wise; what I hold against it is not the tyrannical or idle. In Rome, where dictators held office for risk of its being abused but the risk of its of its becoming only six months, most of them abdicated before their time cheap. When it was being freely employed at elections, was up. If their term had been longer, they might well have dedications and purely formal functions, there was a danger tried to prolong it still further, as the decemvirs did when of its becoming less formidable in time of need—a danger chosen for a year. The dictator had only time to deal with that men would come to think of it as an empty title that the need that had caused him to be chosen; he had no time was used only on occasions of empty ceremonial. to think of further projects.
 
 Towards the end of the Republic, the Romans, having grown more circumspect, were as unreasonably •sparing in 7. Censorship their use of dictatorship as they had formerly been •lavish.
 
 It was easy to see that their fears were unfounded: the Just as the general will is declared by the law, the public capital’s weakness made it safe from the magistrates who judgment is declared by the censorship [seeGlossary]. Public lived there; a dictator might sometimes •defend the public opinion is the sort of law that the censor administers; all he liberty but would never be in a position to •endanger it; and does is to apply it to particular cases, in the same fashion as Rome’s chains would be forged not in Rome itself but in its the prince.
 
 armies. The weakness of Marius’s resistance to Sulla, and of The censorial tribunal doesn’t •pass judgment on the Pompey’s to Caesar, clearly showed what could be expected people’s opinion; it only •declares it, and as soon as the two from authority at home against force from abroad. part company its decisions are null and void.
 
 This misconception led the Romans to make great mis- It’s pointless to distinguish •the mœurs [see Glossary] of takes; such,forexample,asthefailuretonominateadictator a nation from •the objects of its esteem; they both come in the Catilinarian conspiracy. [Rousseau goes into details from the same source, and can’t be disentangled from one of this enormously complex (and still controversial) matter. another. In every nation on earth the choice of the people’s He holds that a dictator could have swiftly cleaned the whole pleasures is decided not by nature but by opinion. Correct thing up, whereas in fact it was a long-drawn-out affair men’sopinions, andtheirmœurs willpurifythemselves. Men involving criminal trials and a mixture of good and bad always love what is good or what they find good; where they behaviour by Cicero, who was a consul at the time as well go wrong is in their judgments about what is good. What as a professional litigating lawyer. That everything worked needs to be regulated, then, is this judgment. In making out satisfactorily from Rome’s point of view, Rousseau says, judgments about mœurs one is making judgments about was better luck than Rome deserved.] what is honourable; and the basis for such judgments—the However this important trust is conferred, its duration law that is being applied—is ·public· opinion.
 
 should be fixed for a very brief period that is never to be [InthisnextsentenceRousseauspeaks,oddly,oftheconstitutionof prolonged. In the crises that lead to the appointment of a apeople. Elsewhere, constitutions are credited to organisms, to man as dictator, the state is going to be soon lost or soon saved; and such,andtopoliticalentities.] A people’s opinions come from its 66 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 
