Mixed governments One result of this lack of cohesion is the inconstancy of incompetent or wicked; for either they will be like that when royal government; regulated now on this scheme and now they come to the throne or the throne will make them so.
 
 on that, according to the character of the reigning prince or Our writers know all this, but aren’t troubled by it. The those who reign for him, such a government can’t for long remedy, they say, is to obey without a murmur: God angrily have a fixed objective or a consistent policy; it will always be sends bad kings, who must be endured as the scourges of shifting from slogan to slogan and from project to project—a heaven. Improving talk, no doubt; but wouldn’t it be more variability that isn’t found in the other forms of government, in place in a pulpit than in a book on politics? What are we where the prince [seeGlossary] is always the same. So we find to say about a physician who promises miracles, and whose that in general if a ·monarchical· court has more plotting, whole treatment is to urge the sufferer to be patient? When a senate has more wisdom, and republics advance towards there’s bad government we must put up with it—we know their ends by more consistent and better considered policies; that already! The question is how to find a good one.
 
 whereas every change of minister under a monarch creates a revolution in the state, because the principle that is adopted 7. Mixed governments by all ministers and nearly all kings is to do in everything the reverse of what their predecessors did. Strictly speaking, there’s no such thing as a simple ·or un....Royalist political writing likens civil government to mixed· government. An isolated ruler must have subordinate domestic government, and the prince to the father of a magistrates; a popular government must have a head. In family—thiserrorhasalreadybeenrefuted—andalsolavishly the distribution of the executive power, therefore, there is credits the prince with having all the virtues that it would always a gradation from larger to smaller numbers, with this be useful to him to have, and steadily supposes him to be variation: sometimes the greater number depends on the what he ought to be. With the help of this supposition, it smaller, and sometimes it’s the other way around.
 
 is easy to make out that royal government is preferable to Sometimes the distribution is equal: •the constituent all others, because it is unquestionably the •strongest; and parts are in mutual dependence, as in the government of in addition to that, all it needs to be the •best—·needs but England, or •the authority of each part of the government doesn’t have·—is a corporate will that is more in conformity is independent, but incomplete—·part x has some authority, with the general will. part y has some, and neither comes under the other·. This But if Plato is right when he says in TheStatesman that a last form is bad because there’s no unity in the government, ‘king by nature’ is a rarity, how often will nature and fortune and the state has nothing to hold it together.
 
 work together to give him a crown? And, if royal education Which is better, a simple government or a mixed one?
 
 inevitably corrupts those who receive it, what can we hope Political writers are always debating this question, which to get from a series of men brought up to reign? Someone should be answered in the same way that I earlier answered who confuses •royal government with •government by a good ·the corresponding question· about all forms of government.
 
 king is willfully deceiving himself. To see royal government Simple government is better in itself, just because it as it is in itself, we must look at it under princes who are is simple. But when the executive power isn’t sufficiently 39 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 38.
 
