Monarchy them. I admit that the prince’s interest would indeed be that [Inthatpassage,‘dukes’mistranslatesRousseau’sprinces. Inusingthat his people should be powerful, so that its power, being his wordthere,hewasunwiselyslidingfromhisusualuseofprincetostand own, would make him formidable to his neighbours—that forwhateverpersonorgroupgovernsthestatetoitsmoreordinarysense would be in his interests provided he could still keep his inwhichitisthelabelnotforafunctionbutforarank.] subjects in submission. But strength is incompatible with But if it is hard for a big state to be well governed, it’s submission, soaprincehastochoose; andhenaturallygives much harder still for it to be well governed by one man; and the preference to the principle that is more to his immediate everyone knows what happens when kings substitute others advantage. That is what Samuel put strongly before the for themselves!
 
 Hebrews [1Samuel 8:10–18], and what Machiavelli has clearly Monarchical government has an essential and inevitable shown. While pretending to teach kings, he was really giving defect that will always put it below republican government, extensive lessons to the people. His The Prince is the book of namely: Republicans.15 Whereas in a republic the public voice hardly ever Wehavefound, fromgeneralreasonsconcerningrelations raises to the highest positions men who aren’t enlightbetween different states, that monarchy is suitable only for ened and capable, men who will fill those positions great states, and this will be confirmed when we examine honourably, in monarchies those who rise to the monarchy in itself. The more people there are in the public top are most often merely little muddle-heads, little administration, thenearertheprince-to-subjectsratiocomes crooks, little intriguers, whose little talents •get them to equality, so that in democracy—·where every member into the highest positions at court and then, once they of the populace has a role in the government·—the ratio are there, •reveal to the public how incompetent they is 1:1, or absolute equality. And when the government is are. The populace is far less often mistaken in this progressivelyrestrictedinnumberstheratiobecomessteeper choice than the prince is; and a man of real worth and reaches its maximum when the government is in the among the ·king’s· ministers is almost as rare as a hands of a single person, ·so that the ratio is 1:n where n = fool at the head of a republican government! Thus, the size of the population·. In that case, therefore, there’s when, by good luck one of these born governors takes too much distance between prince and people, and the state the helm of the state in some monarchy that has been isn’t properly held together. To bind it there would have to nearly ruined by those swarms of elegant and socially be intermediate orders—dukes, grandees, nobles—to fill the presentable administrators, there is amazement at space between the prince and the people. But none of that the resources he discovers, and this marks an era in suits a small state, to which all class differences mean ruin. his country’s history.
 
 15 Machiavelli was an honest man and a good citizen; but, being attached to the court of the Medici, he had to veil his love of liberty in the midst of his country’s oppression. The choice of his detestable hero, ·Cesare Borgia·, clearly enough shows his hidden aim; and the contradiction between the teaching of The Prince and that of the Discourses on Livy and the History of Florence shows that this profound political thinker has so far been studiedonlybysuperficialorcorruptreaders. ThecourtofRomesternlyprohibitedhisbook—ofcourse itdid! becausethat’sthecourtthatthebook mostclearlyportrays.
 
 37 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 36.
 
