Voting To rule that the son of a slave is born a slave is to rule that the opinion that is contrary to my own prevails, this proves he isn’t born a man. neither more nor less than that I was mistaken, and that So if the social compact has opponents at the time when what I thought to be the general will was not so. [Rousseau it is made, their opposition doesn’t invalidate the contract; it isavoidingsayingthatamerelymajorityvotecouldexpressthegeneral merelypreventsthemfrombeingincludedinit, makingthem will; all it does, he says, is to express an opinion about what the foreigners among citizens. Once a state has been instituted, general will is.]....
 
 residence constitutes consent; to live within its territory is to This presupposes, indeed, that all the qualities of the submit to its sovereignty.22 general will still reside in the majority: when they cease to Apart from this primal contract, the vote of the majority do so, whatever side a man may take, liberty is no longer always binds all the rest. This follows from the contract itself. possible.
 
 [That is the last mention of the social contract until the last page or two In my earlier demonstration [page 14] of how particular ofthework.] wills are substituted for the general will in public deliberaYou will ask: ‘How can a man be both •free and •forced to tions, I said enough about the workable methods for avoiding conformto willsthatarenot hisown. Howare theopponents this abuse; and I’ll return to them later on. I also set out at once free and subject to laws they have not agreed to? the principles for deciding how big a majority is needed for I reply that the question is wrongly put. The citizen gives a declaration of that will. A difference of one vote destroys his consent to all the laws, including ones that are passed equality; a single opponent destroys unanimity; but between against his opposition, and even laws that punish him when 50-50 and unanimity there are many grades of unequal he dares to break any law. The constant will of all the division—·many differences in how steep the majority-tomembers of the state is the general will; by virtue of it minority slope is·—and which of these is sufficient for a they are citizens and free.23 When a law is proposed to decision to be made will vary according to the needs of the the assembled people, what they are being asked is not body politic in question.
 
 (1) Do you approve or reject this proposal?
 
 Two general rules provide guidanceto the decisions about but rather majorities. (i) The more serious and important the question (2) Is this proposal in conformity with the general will? that is being put to the vote, the nearer to unanimity the —the general will being their will. Each man’s vote gives his threshold should be set. (ii) The more the subject of the opinion on that point, ·i.e. his answer to question (2)·; and question calls for speed, the smaller the majority can be the general will is found by counting votes. When therefore allowed to be; and where an instant decision has to be 22 This should of course be understood as applying to a free state. In any other kind of state a man may be kept in a country against his will—by considerations of family, goods, lack of a refuge, necessity, or violence—and then his dwelling there no longer by itself implies anything about his attitude—eitherway—tothecontract.
 
 23 At Genoa, the word ‘Liberty’ appears over the front of the prisons and on the chains of the prisoners serving in the galleys. This use of the device is good and just. Indeed it’s only the criminals—rich, poor, and middling—who prevent the citizen from being free. In a country where all such men werepullingoarsinthegalleys,themostperfectlibertywouldbeenjoyed.
 
 56 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 43.
 
