Conclusion The dogmas of civil religion ought to be few, simple, and exclusive national religions, tolerance should be given to exactly worded, with no explanation or commentary. Its all •religions that tolerate others, so long as •their dogmas positive dogmas are: contain nothing contrary to the duties of citizenship. Anyone who ventures to say: ‘Outside the Church is no salvation’ •the existence of a mighty, intelligent and beneficent should be driven from the state, unless the state is the Divinity, possessed of foresight and providence, Church and the prince the pope. Such a dogma is good •the life to come, only in a theocratic government; in any other it is fatal. The •the happiness of the just, reasonHenryIVissaidtohavehadforembracingtheRoman •the punishment of the wicked, religion—·namely that the Roman Catholics did, while the •the sanctity of the social contract and the laws.
 
 Protestants didn’t, say ‘Our faith is the only possible route to And just one dogma of exclusion, namely the exclusion of heaven’·—oughttomakeeveryhonestmanleaveit,especially intolerance, which is a feature of the cults we have rejected.
 
 any prince who knows how to reason.
 
 Those who distinguish •civil from •theological intolerance are, to my mind, mistaken. The two intolerances are insepa9. Conclusion rable. You can’t possibly live at peace with people you regard as damned; loving them would be hating God who punishes Now that I have laid down the true principles of political them: we absolutely must either reform them or torment right, and tried to plant the state on its own base, the next them. Wherever theological intolerance is admitted, it must task would be to strengthen it by its foreign relations. That inevitably have some civil effect;30 and as soon as it does the would bring in the law of nations, commerce, the right of war sovereign is no longer sovereign even in the temporal sphere; and conquest, public law, leagues, negotiations, treaties, etc.
 
 from then on, priests are the real masters, and kings only But all this adds up to a new subject that is far too vast for their ministers. my narrow scope. As it is, I have ranged further afield than I Now that there no longer are, and no longer can be, any ought to have.
 
 30 Marriage, for instance, being a civil contract, has civil effects without which society can’t even subsist. Now, suppose that the clergy collectively claim the sole right of permitting this act, a right that every intolerant religion is bound to claim. Isn’t it obvious that in establishing the Church’s authority in this respect, it will be destroying the prince’s, letting him now have only as many subjects as the clergy are willing to allow him? Being inapositiontomarryornottomarrypeopleaccordingto •theiracceptanceofsuchandsuchadoctrine, •theiradmissionorrejectionofsuchandsuchaformula, •theirgreaterorlesspiety, isn’t it obvious that if the Church is prudent and firm it can come to have sole control of all inheritances, offices and citizens, and even of the state itself? ·Doing all this through marriage? But what if people don’t marry but have children all the same? That is not a solution, because· the state couldn’t survive if it were composed entirely of bastards. ‘But’, I shall be told, ‘people can appeal on the grounds of abuse, create delays, issue decrees,workthecontrolsofthewholetemporal(seeGlossary)legalmachine.’ Howpathetic! Theclergywilltakenonoticeandgoitsway;todothis it won’t even need courage, merely a little good sense. It will calmly allow appeals, delays, decrees and seizings of the controls, and still end up as themaster. Itisnot,Ithink,agreatsacrificetogiveupapart,whenoneissureofsecuringall.
 
 73 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 49.
 
