The people him a band of fools; but he’ll never found an empire, and populace can’t stand having anyone touch its faults, even to whatever crazy thing he does found will die soon after he remedy them; it’s like the foolish and cowardly patients who does. Idle tricks create a temporary bond; only wisdom can tremble at sight of the doctor.
 
 makeitpermanent. TheJudaiclaw, whichstillsurvives, and I’m not denying that there are times in the history of Islamic law that has ruled half the world for ten centuries, states when....violence and revolutions jolt the populace still today proclaim the great men who laid them down; and into remembering the past, so that the state, set on fire by while •proud philosophy and •the blind spirit of political civil wars, is so to speak born again from its ashes, and with partisanship sees those men as nothing but lucky impostors, a renewed vigour of youth springs from the jaws of death.
 
 the true political theorist admires in the institutions they set Examples: Sparta at the time of Lycurgus, Rome after the up the great and powerful genius that presides over durable Tarquins, and in our own day Holland and Switzerland after political structures. the expulsion of the tyrants.
 
 The right conclusion to draw from all this is not....that But such events are rare; they are exceptions, always among us politics and religion have a common object, but to be explained in terms of the particular constitution [see that when nations are first starting up religion is used as an Glossary] of the exceptional state. They can’t even happen instrument for politics. twice to the same people, for a populace can make itself free as long as it is merely uncivilized, but not when the civic spring has wound down. Then disturbances can destroy 8. The people it, but revolutions can’t rebuild it: it needs a master, not a Before putting up a large building, the architect surveys and liberator. Free peoples, remember this maxim: ‘Liberty can teststhegroundtoseeifitcansupporttheweight; andinthe be gained, but it can never be recovered.’ same way the wise legislator doesn’t start by laying down his Youth is not infancy. For nations, as for men, there is a good laws but by investigating whether the populace they are period of young adulthood—we may call it ‘maturity’—before intended for is in a condition to receive them. Plato refused which a nation shouldn’t be made subject to laws; but it isn’t to legislate for the Arcadians and the Cyreniens because he always easy to recognise a people’s maturity, and if political knew that both peoples were rich and couldn’t put up with developmentsaresetgoingbeforethat, thedevelopmentswill equality; and Crete had good laws and bad men because all fail. One people is amenable to discipline from the beginning; Minos had done was to impose discipline on a people already another, not after ten centuries. The Russians will never be burdened with vice. really civilised, because they were ‘civilised’ too soon. Peter A thousand nations that shone around the earth couldn’t ·the Great· had a genius for imitation, but he didn’t have endure good laws for long, and most couldn’t have endured the true creative genius that makes everything from nothing.
 
 them at all. Most peoples, like most men, are teachable only Some of the things he did were good, but most of them were in youth; as they grow old they become impossible to correct. wrong for that time and place. He saw that his populace was Once customs have become established and prejudices are barbarous, but didn’t see that it was not ripe for civilisation: dug in, trying to reform them is dangerous and useless; the he wanted to civilise it when all it needed was to be prepared 22 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 29.
 
