What does establish government 16. What establishes government isn’t a contract act; and from this is follows that it can’t be a law or an act of sovereignty, and that consequently it would be illegitimate.
 
 Once the legislative power has been well established, the (3) It’s obvious also that ·in this supposed contract· the next thing is to establish also the executive power; for this contracting parties would be under nothing but the law of latter, which works only through particular actions, isn’t nature, with no guarantees of their mutual undertakings— part of the essence of the former and so is naturally separate which would be wholly at variance with the civil state. Somefrom it. If the sovereign qua sovereign could possess the one who has force at his command is always in a position to executive power, right and fact would be so mixed together control execution, so the idea that I’m attacking would be on that no-one could tell what was law and what wasn’t; and a par with giving the label ‘contract’ to the act of one man the body politic, thus disfigured, would soon fall prey to the who said to another: ‘I give you all my goods, on condition violence it was instituted to prevent.
 
 that you give me back as much of them as you please.’ Because the citizens are, by the social contract, all equal, There’s only one contract in the state; it is the contract of they can all prescribe anything that all of them should do; association, which single-handedly rules out any others. It whereas no-one has a right to demand that someone else is impossible to conceive of any public contract that wouldn’t shall do something that he doesn’t do himself. It is this right violate the first one.
 
 that the sovereign, in instituting the government, confers upon the prince. It’s a right that ·the prince has to have 17. What does establish government because it· is indispensable for giving life and movement to the body politic.
 
 Under what general idea then should we conceive the act Many theorists have claimed that this act of establish- by which government is instituted? I’ll start by saying that ment was a contract between the people and the rulers it the act is complex, i.e. is composed of two others—(i) the sets over itself—a contract specifying the conditions under establishment of the law and (ii) the execution of the law.
 
 which one of the two parties was obliged to command and By (i) the sovereign decrees that there’s to be a governing the other was obliged to obey. I’m sure you’ll agree with me body established in such-and-such a form; this act is clearly that that would be an odd kind of contract to enter into! But a law.
 
 let us see if this view can be upheld. ·I’ll give three reasons By (ii) the populace picks the rulers who are to run the why it can’t·. government that has been established. This selection is a (1) The supreme authority can no more be modified than particular act; so it’s clearly not another law, but merely a it can be alienated; to limit it is to destroy it. It is absurd consequence of the first and a function of government [=‘an and contradictory to suppose that the sovereign might set a actofthegovernment’].
 
 superior over itself; binding itself to obey a master would be But there’s a difficulty: How can there be an act of the returning to ·the terrible chaos of· absolute liberty. government before the government exists? And how can the (2) Moreover, it is clear that this contract between the populace, which is only •sovereign or •subject, become a people and such-and-such individuals would be a particular prince or magistrate under certain circumstances?
 
 51 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 318.
 
