Real estate territories that were already possessed by other princes! public good has been entrusted, and •having their rights We can imagine •how adjacent pieces of land belonging respected by all the state’s members and maintained against to individuals become, when they are combined, public foreign aggression by all its forces, have made a transfer that territory, and •how the right of sovereignty over the sub- benefits both the public and still more themselves, thereby jects comes to be extended to being a right over their real acquiring (as it were) everything that they gave up. This estate. This makes the land-owners even more dependent paradox is easily explained by distinguishing the sovereign’s ·on the sovereign·; ·they have more to lose if things go wrong right from the owner’s rights over the same estate—as we between them and the sovereign; and· this is a guarantee shall see later on.
 
 of their fidelity. The advantage of this apparently wasn’t felt It can also happen that men •begin to unite before they by ancient monarchs, who called themselves kings of the possess anything, •subsequently occupy a tract of land that Persians, the Scythians, or the Macedonians, apparently is enough for them all, and then •enjoy it in common, or regardingthemselvesasrulersofmenratherthanasmasters share it out among themselves (either equally or in proporof a country. Today’s kings are cleverer: they call themselves tions fixed by the sovereign). But however the acquisition kings of France, of Spain, of England and so on. Holding is made, each individual’s right to his own estate is always the land in this way, they are quite confident of holding the subordinate to the community’s right over everyone’s estate; inhabitants. without this, the social tie would be fragile and the exercise This alienation in which individuals transfer their goods of sovereignty would be feeble.
 
 to the community has a special feature, namely that far from To bring this chapter and this book to an end, I’ll remark •depriving the individuals of their goods it •assures them of on a fact that should be the basis for any social system, legitimate possession, changing namely: The basic compact doesn’t destroy natural inequal•‘I have taken possession of this (somehow)’ into ‘I have ity; rather, it replaces •such physical inequalities as nature a genuine right to this’, and may have set up between men by •an equality that is moral •’I have the enjoyment of this’ into ‘I own this’. and legitimate, so that men who may be unequal in strength Thus the possessors, •in their role as those to whom the or intelligence become equal by agreement and legal right.3 3 Underbadgovernments, thisequalityisonlyapparentandillusory: allitdoesistokeepthepauperinhispovertyandtherichmanintheposition hehasusurped. Lawsinfactarealwaysusefultothosewhohavepossessionsandharmfultothosewhodon’t; fromwhichitfollowsthatthesocial stateisadvantageoustomenonlywheneveryonehassomethingandno-onehastoomuch.
 
 11 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 22.
 
