The comitia in ancient Rome To the four urban tribes Servius added fifteen others tribes were honoured because of the men of whom they were called rural tribes, because they consisted of those who lived composed; and their way of dishonouring a coward was to in the country, divided into fifteen cantons. Subsequently, subject him to the public disgrace of being transferred into fifteen more were created, and the Roman people finally an urban tribe.... Freed slaves always entered the urban found itself divided into thirty-five tribes, as it remained tribes, never the rural ones; and although freed slaves could down to the end of the Republic. become citizens, there isn’t a single example, throughout the The distinction between urban and rural tribes had one Republic, of a freed slave reaching any magistracy [= ‘being effect that is worth noting, because •it is the only example of appointedtoapositionasagovernmentofficial’].
 
 its kind, and because •Rome owed to it the preservation of This was an excellent rule; but it was carried so far that her mœurs [see Glossary] and the enlargement of her empire. in the end it led to a change and certainly to an abuse in the One would have expected that the urban tribes would soon political system.
 
 monopolise power and honours, losing no time in pushing Firstthecensors, aftermanyyearsofclaimingtherightto the rural tribes down into poverty and weakness; but what choosewhattribeacitizencouldbetransferredto,eventually happened was exactly the reverse. The taste of the early allowed most people to enroll themselves in whatever tribe Romans for country life is well known. They owed this taste they pleased. This permission certainly did no good, and to their wise founder, who made rural and military labours deprived the censorship of one of its main sources of power.
 
 go along with •liberty and (as it were) pushed off into the Moreover, as the great and powerful all had themselves town •arts, •trades, •intrigue, •luck, and •slavery. [By ‘their enrolled in the country tribes, while the freed slaves who had become citizens remained with the populace in the town wise founder’, Rousseau means Romulus—a purely mythical founder of tribes, the tribes in general soon stopped having any local Rome, though Rousseau may have thought he was real, as did all the Romanhistoriansonwhoseworkherelies.] or territorial meaning, and all were so confused that the members of one could not be told from those of another Thus, because all Rome’s most illustrious citizens lived except through the membership lists; so that the idea of in the fields and tilled the earth, the countryside came to be ‘tribe’ became personal instead of real, or rather came to be the only place where they looked for the people who would little more than a chimera.
 
 keep the republic running. This rural way of life, being that It happened also that the urban tribes, being more on of the best nobles, was honoured by everyone; the simple the spot, were often the stronger in the •comitia and sold and hard-working life of the villager was preferred to the the state to those who stooped to buy the votes of the rabble slack and idle life of the bourgeoisie of Rome; and someone who in the town would have been a wretched proletarian composing •them. [Thecomitia willbeexplainedonpage61.] As the founder had set up ten curiae in each tribe, the became, as a labourer in the fields, a respected citizen. Our whole Roman people then contained within the town walls great-souled ancestors, says Varro, knew what they were consisted of thirty curiae, each of which had its temples, its doing when they established in the villages the nursery of gods, its officers, its priests and its festivals....
 
 the tough, brave men who •defended them in time of war and •fed them in time of peace. Pliny says explicitly that the rural 59 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 44.
 
