Deputies or representatives In ancient republics and even in monarchies, the people The Greeks lived in a mild climate; they weren’t greedy; never had representatives; the word itself was unknown. It slaves did their work for them; their great concern was with is remarkable •that in Rome, where the tribunes were so liberty. Lacking those advantages, how can you preserve sacrosanct, no-one ever imagined that they could usurp the those rights? Your harsher climates add to your needs;19 functions of the people, and •that in the midst of so great a for half the year your public squares are uninhabitable; the multitude they never tried to conduct a public referendum flatness of your languages unfits them for being heard in the on their own authority. Still, we can gauge the difficulties open air; you put more into profit than into liberty, and fear sometimes caused by the size of those crowds from what slavery less than you fear poverty.
 
 happened at the time of the Gracchi, when some of the What?! Is liberty maintained only with help from slavery?
 
 citizens had to cast their votes from the roof-tops. It may be so. Extremes meet. Everything that isn’t in the Where right and liberty are everything, disadvantages are course of nature has its drawbacks, especially civil society.
 
 nothing. Among this wise people—·the ancient Romans·— There are some unhappy circumstances where we can’t everything was given its just value: its lictors were allowed to keep our liberty except at others’ expense, and where the do what its tribunes would never have dared to do, because citizen can be perfectly free only when the slave is most it had no fear that its lictors would try to represent it. a slave. That’s how things stood at Sparta. As for you, modern peoples, you don’t have slaves but you are slaves; You’ll understand how the tribunes did sometimes repyou pay for their liberty with your own. Boast away about resent the people if you think about how the government this preference—I find in it more cowardice than humanity.
 
 represents the sovereign. Law being nothing but the declaI don’t mean that one ought to have slaves, or that the ration of the general will, it’s clear that the populace in its right of slavery is legitimate (I have shown that it isn’t). I’m law-making capacity can’t be represented; but in respect of merely saying why modern peoples, thinking they are free, the executive power—which is only the force that is applied haverepresentatives,whereasancientpeoplesdidn’t. Bethat to ·implementing· the law—it can and should be represented.
 
 asitmay,themomentapeopleallowsitselftoberepresented, We thus see that if we looked closely into the matter we it stops being free—it stops being.
 
 would find that very few nations have any laws! Be that as All things considered, I don’t see that it is any longer it may, it is certain that the tribunes, having no executive possible for the sovereign to preserve among us the exercise power, could never represent the Roman people •by right of its rights, unless the city is very small. But if it is very of the powers entrusted to them, but only •by usurping the small, won’t it be conquered? No. I’ll show later on how a rights of the senate.
 
 the external strength of a great people can be combined with In Greece, all that the populace had to do, it did for the smooth politics and good order of a small state.20 itself; it was constantly assembled in the public square.
 
 19 ToadoptincoldcountriestheluxuryandeffeminacyoftheEastistowanttosubmittoitschains—indeedtobowtothemfarmoreinevitablyinour casethanintheirs.
 
 20 I had intended to do this in the sequel to the present work, when in dealing with external relations I came to the subject of confederations. The subjectisquitenew,anditsprincipleshavestilltobelaiddown.
 
 50 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 317.
 
