Real estate master of himself; for the drive of sheer appetite is •slavery, Having acquired share, he ought to limit himself to that, while obedience to a law that we prescribe to ourselves is and can’t have any further claim on the community. That’s •liberty. But I have said too much about this in other places; why the first-occupier right, which is so weak in the state of and the philosophical meaning of the word ‘liberty’ doesn’t nature, claims the respect of every man in civil society. What concern us here. a man respects in this right is not so much •what belongs to someone else as •what doesn’t belong to him.
 
 In general, to authorize a first occupier’s right over any 9. Real estate bit of ground three conditions must be satisfied: At the moment when the community comes into existence, •the ground wasn’t already occupied by someone else; each of its members gives himself to it—himself just as he is, •he occupies only as much as he needs for his subsiswith any powers that he has, including all his possessions. tence; It is not the case that this transfer of all his goods changes •he takes possession of this ground not by an empty themfrombeing•possessionsinhishandstobeing•property ceremony but by labour and cultivation.
 
 in the hands of the sovereign; but because the city’s powers Hisworkonthelandistheonlysignofownershipthatothers are incomparably greater than any individual’s, public pos- should respect if he doesn’t have a legal title.
 
 session is stronger and more irrevocable, without being any In allowing the right of first occupancy on condition that more legitimate. [Therestofthisparagraphisexpandedinwaysthat thelandwasneededandwasworkedon, aren’twestretching the ·small dots· convention can’t easily signify.] Actually, from the that right as far as it can go? Could such a right be left with point of view of the members of this state its possession of no limits or restrictions? To claim to be the master of a plot each member’s goods [is legitimate, because the state is the of common ground will it be enough merely to set foot on master of all their goods by the social contract which is the it? If a man has the strength to expel others for a moment, basis of all rights within the state. But that doesn’t hold for does that deprive them of any right to return? If a man or foreigners, because for them ownership depends solely on a people seize an immense territory and shut out the rest the ‘first come, first served’ principle, which also serves for of the world, won’t this be merely a grab that ought to be states in their ownership of territory. punished? ·The answer is surely ‘yes’·, because such an act Of the two ways of getting a right to something in the steals from others the living-space and means of subsistence state of nature, namely that nature gave them in common. When Balboa stood on (i) being the first occupier of it, and the sea-shore and took possession of the south seas and the (ii) being the strongest, whole of South America in the name of the Spanish crown, (i) provides a right—‘·first come, first served·’—that is more was that enough to dispossess all their actual inhabitants real than (ii) does; but it doesn’t become a true right until and to shut out from those territories all the princes of the property-rights are established. Every man has naturally a world? If so, there’s no need for all these ceremonies; the right to everything he needs; but the positive act that makes Catholic King can take possession of the whole universe all something his property excludes him from everything else. at once, tacking on a rider excluding from his claim any 10 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 19.
 
