Slavery the only enemies a state can have are other states; not men, kill an enemy except when he can’t make him a slave, so the because there can’t be a real settled relation between things right to enslave him can’t be derived from the right to kill as radically different as states and men. him: it’s not fair dealing to make him spend his freedom so as to keep his life, over which the victor holds no right. Isn’t This principle squares with the established rules of all it clear that there’s a vicious circle in basing the right of life times and the constant practice of all civilised peoples.
 
 and death on the right of slavery, and the right of slavery on Declarations of war don’t give notice to •powers as much the right of life and death?
 
 as to •their subjects. A foreigner—whether king, individual, or whole people—who robs, kills or detains the subjects ·of Even if we assume this terrible right to kill everybody, I a country· without first declaring war on their prince is not maintain that someone enslaved in war isn’t committed to do anything for his master except what he is compelled to do; an enemy but a bandit. When a full-scale war is going on, a prince is entitled to help himself to anything in the enemy and the same goes for a conquered people. [Rousseau’s point country that belongs to the public, but if he is just he will hereisthattheenslavedindividualortheconqueredpeopledoesn’towe respect the lives and goods of individuals—he will respect the conqueror anything.] By taking an equivalent for his life, the winner hasn’t done him a favour; instead of killing him rights on which his own are based. The purpose of the war without profit, he has killed him usefully. He is indeed so is to destroy the enemy state, so we [seeGlossary] have a right far from getting any •authority over the slave in addition to to kill its defenders while they are bearing arms; but as soon his •power over him, that the two are still in a state of war as they lay down their weapons and surrender, they stop towards one another: their master/slave relation comes from being enemies or instruments of the enemy and resume their that, and this enforcement of a right of war doesn’t imply status as simply men, and no-one has any right to take their that there has been a peace-treaty! They have reached an lives. Sometimes it is possible to kill a state without killing agreement; but this agreement, far from ending the state of any of its members; and a war doesn’t give any right that war, presupposes its continuance.
 
 isn’tneeded forthewartogainitsobjective. Theseprinciples Whatever angle we look at it from, therefore, the ‘right are not those of Grotius: they aren’t based on the authority of slavery’ is null and void—not only as illegitimate but also of poets, but are derived from the nature of things and are as absurd and meaningless. The words ‘slave’ and ‘right’ based on reason.
 
 contradict each other, and are mutually exclusive. It will What about the ‘right of conquest’? The only basis for always be crazy to say to a man, or to a people: ‘I make an that is ‘the law of the strongest’! If war doesn’t give the agreement with you wholly at your expense and wholly to winner the right to massacre the conquered peoples, you my advantage; I shall keep it as long as I like, and you will can’t cite that right—a ‘right’ that doesn’t exist—as a basis keep it as long as I like.’ for a right to enslave those peoples. No-one has a right to allowed to serve as a volunteer without explicitly agreeing to serve against such-and-such a named enemy. [Rousseau throws in an anecdote about asoldierwhosemilitaryoathhadtoberenewedbecauseetc. Hecontinues:] IknowthatthesiegeofClusiumandotherisolatedeventscanbecited againstme;butI’mtalking·notaboutindividualepisodes,but·aboutlawsandcustoms. TheRomansobeyedtheirlawsmorethananyotherpeople, andtheyhadbetterlawsthananyotherpeople.
 
 5 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 16.
 
