No one form of government...
 
 dependent upon the legislative power, i.e. when the prince The amount of this excess isn’t the same in all countries.
 
 pushes harder on the sovereign than the people push on the In some it is considerable, in others middling, in yet othprince, this imbalance should be cured by dividing the gov- ers nil, in some even negative. This ·earned:needed· ratio ernment; for all the parts still have as much authority over depends on the fertility of the climate, on the kind of work the subjects, while their division makes them all together the land demands, on the nature of its products, on the less strong against the sovereign. strength of its inhabitants, on how much or little they need That same disadvantage is also prevented by the appoint- to consume, and on other factors that also contribute to the ment of intermediate magistrates; that leaves the govern- over-all ratio.
 
 ment undivided, and merely balances the two powers—·i.e. On the other side ·of the ratio·, governments aren’t all the government and the sovereign·—and maintains their of the same nature: some are less voracious than others, respective rights. This is moderated government, not mixed and the differences between them are based on this second government. principle, that the further the public contributions are from There’sasimilarcurefortheoppositedisadvantage: when their source, the more burdensome they are. That burden the government is too slack, set up tribunals to make it shouldn’t be measured by the amount of money involved, pull itself together. That’s what all the democracies do. but by the distance it has to travel in order to get back to In the first situation the government is divided to make those who paid it. When the circulation is fast and secure, it weak; in the second it is divided to make it strong; for the it doesn’t matter whether the amount is small or large; the maxima of both strength and weakness are found in simple populace is always rich and finances are always in good governments, while the mixed forms provide intermediate shape. In the opposite situation, however little the people amounts of strength. gives, if that little doesn’t get back to it then it is constantly giving, and before long it is exhausted; and in that case the state is never rich and the populace is always a beggar.
 
 8. No one form of government suits all countries It follows that the greater the distance between people Libertyisn’tafruitofeveryclimate,soitisn’twithinthereach and government the more burdensome the taxes are: the ofeverypeople. The more you think about this principle that people carry the lightest burden in a democracy, a heavier Montesquieu laid down, the more you feel its truth; and the one in an aristocracy, and the heaviest in a monarchy. Thus, more you fight it, the more evidence you find in its favour. monarchy suits only wealthy nations, aristocracy suits ones In all the governments in the world the public person con- of middling size and wealth, and democracy suits states that sumes without producing. Then where does it get the stuff are small and poor.
 
 it consumes? From the labour of its members. The public’s In fact, the more you think about this the more you’ll see necessities are supplied out of the individuals’ surpluses. It it as a difference between free states and monarchies. In free follows that the civil state can survive only so long as men’s states everything is used for the public advantage; in the labour brings them a return greater than their needs. others, there’s an interplay between the public forces and those of individuals, and as either of them weakens the other 40 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 38.
 
