Sovereignty is indivisible BOOK 2 1. Sovereignty is inalienable because it’s absurd for the will to bind itself for the future, and no will is obliged to consent to anything that isn’t for The first and most important consequence of the principles I the good of the being whose will it is. If then the populace have laid down is that the directing of the state in the light of promises simply to obey, by that very act it dissolves itself the object for which it was instituted, i.e. the common good, and loses what makes it a people; the moment a master must be done by the general will. The •clashing of particular exists, there is no longer a sovereign, and from that moment interests made it •necessary to establish a society, and the the body politic has ceased to exist.
 
 •agreement of those same interests made it •possible to do This isn’t to deny that rulers’ commands can count as so. It’s the common element in these different interests that general wills, if the sovereign is free to oppose them and forms the social tie; and if there were there nothing that they doesn’t do so. In such a case, universal silence should be all had in common, no society could exist. It is solely by this taken to show the people’s consent. I’ll explain this fully later common interest that every society should be governed.
 
 on.
 
 I hold then that sovereignty, being nothing less than the exercise of the general will, can never be alienated [see 2. Sovereignty is indivisible Glossary], and that the sovereign, which is nothing but a collective being, can’t be represented except by itself: the For the same reason that makes it inalienable, sovereignty power indeed may be transmitted, but not the will. is indivisible. Here is why. Either will (a) is general4 or it (b) Perhaps a particular will could agree on some point with isn’t; it is the will either of (a) the body of the people or of (b) the general will, but at least it’s impossible for such an only a part of it. When it is declared, then, either (a) it is an agreement to be lasting and constant. Why? Because act of sovereignty and constitutes law, or (b) it is merely a it’s of the very nature of a particular will to tend towards particular will or •favouritism, be •partial [i.e. to favour some people over others], the rest of the sentence: un acte de magistrature ; c’est un whereas the general will tends towards •equality. It is even décret tout au plus.
 
 more impossible to have any guarantee of this agreement; which literally means: an act of magistracy—at the most a for even if it did always exist that would be the effect not of decree.
 
 skill but of chance. The sovereign may indeed say: ‘Right now I will what that man wills (or at least what what Rousseau was getting at: regulations laid down by he says he wills)’, high-level bureaucrats, not basic laws issuing from the but it can’t say legislature, the sovereign. [Re‘magistracy’,seeGlossary.] ’What that man wills tomorrow, I too shall will’, But our political theorists, unable to divide sovereignty on 4 Tobegeneral,awillneednotalwaysbeunanimous;buteveryvotemustbecounted: anyexclusionisabreachofgenerality.
 
 12 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 22.
 
