The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 12. The first societies BOOK 1 This little treatise is salvaged from a much longer work that I abandoned long ago, having started it without thinking about whether I was capable of pulling it off. Of various bits that might be rescued from what I had written of that longer work, what I offer here is the most substantial and, it seems to me, the least unworthy of being published. None of the rest of it is.
 
 I plan to address this question: With men as they are and If I took into account nothing but force and what can be with laws as they could be, can there be in the civil order done by force, I would say: any sure and legitimate rule of administration? In tackling ‘As long as a people is constrained to obey, it does this I shall try always to unite •what right allows with •what well to obey; as soon as it can shake off the yoke, it interest demands, so that •justice and •utility don’t at any does even better to shake it off. ·If its right to do so is stage part company. challenged, it can answer that·: it gets its liberty back I start on this without showing that the subject is impor- by the same ‘right’—·namely, force·—that took it away tant. Youmaywanttochallengeme: ‘Soyouwanttowriteon in the first place. Any justification for taking it away politics—are you then a prince [seeGlossary] or a legislator?’ I equally justifies taking it back; and if there was no answer that I am neither, and that is why I write on politics. justification for its being taken away ·no justification If I were a prince or a legislator I wouldn’t waste my time for taking it back is called for·.’ saying what should be done; I would do it, or keep quiet. But the social order ·isn’t to be understood in terms of force; As I was born a citizen of a free state, and am a member it· is a sacred right on which all other rights are based. But it of its sovereign [see Glossary], my right to vote makes it my doesn’tcomefromnature,soitmustbebasedonagreements.
 
 duty to study public affairs, however little influence my voice Before coming to that, though, I have to establish the truth can have on them. Happily, when I think about governments of what I have been saying.
 
 Ialwaysfindthatmyinquiriesgivemenewreasonsforloving the government of my own country!
 
 2. The first societies 1. The subject of the first book The most ancient of all societies, and the only natural one, is the society of the family. Yet the children remain attached Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains. Here’s to the father only for as long as they need him for their one who thinks he is the master of others, yet he is more preservation; as soon as this need ceases, the natural bond enslaved than they are. How did this change come about? I is dissolved. The children, released from the obedience they don’t know. What can make it legitimate? That’s a question owed to the father, and the father, released from the care he that I think I can answer. owed his children, return equally to independence. If they remain united, this is something they do not •naturally but 1 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 13.
 
