Slavery as a basic truth. But will no-one ever explain this phrase? 4. Slavery Force is a physical power; I don’t see what moral effect it Since no man has a •natural authority over his fellow, and can have. Giving way to force is something you have to do, not something you choose to do; ·or if you insist that choice •force creates no right, we are left with •agreements [see comes into it·, it is at most an act of •prudence. In what Glossary] as the basis for all legitimate authority among men.
 
 sense can it be a •duty? Grotius says: If an individual can alienate [see Glossary] his liberty Suppose for a moment that this so-called ‘right ·of the and make himself the slave of a master, why couldn’t strongest·’ exists. I maintain that we’ll get out of this a whole people alienate its liberty and make itself nothing but a mass of inexplicable nonsense. If force makes subject to a king?
 
 right, then if you change the force you change the right This contains several ambiguous words that need to be (effects change when causes change!), so that when one force explained, but let us confine ourselves to ‘alienate’. To overcomes another, there’s a corresponding change in what alienate something is to give or sell it. Now, a man who is right. The moment it becomes possible to disobey •with becomes the slave of another does not give himself—he impunity it becomes possible to disobey •legitimately. And sells himself at the rock-bottom price of his subsistence [see because the strongest are always in the right, the only thing Glossary]. But when a people sells itself what price is paid?
 
 that matters is to work to become the strongest. Now, what ·Not their subsistence:· Far from providing his subjects with sort of right is it that perishes when force fails? If force their subsistence, a king gets his own subsistence only from makes us obey, we can’t be morally obliged to obey; and them.... Do subjects then give their persons on condition if force doesn’t make us obey, then ·on the theory we are that the king takes their goods also? I fail to see what they examining· we are under no obligation to do so. Clearly, the have left to preserve.
 
 word ‘right’ adds nothing to force: in this context it doesn’t ‘The despot guarantees civic peace in the state’, you may stand for anything.
 
 say. Granted; but what do the people gain if ‘Obey the powers that be.’ If this means submit to force, •the wars his ambition brings down on them, it is a good precept, but superfluous: I guarantee that it will •his insatiable greed, and never be violated! All power comes from God, I admit; but •harassments by his ministers so does all sickness—are we then forbidden to send for the bring them more misery than they’d have suffered from their doctor? A robber confronts me at the edge of a wood: I am own dissensions ·if no monarchy had been established·?
 
 compelled to hand over my money, but is it the case that What do they gain if this peace is one of their miseries? You even if I could hold onto it I am morally obliged to hand it can live peacefully in a dungeon, but does that make it a over? After all, the pistol he holds is also a power.
 
 good life? The Greeks imprisoned in the cave of the Cyclops Then let us agree that force doesn’t create right, and that lived there peacefully while waiting for their turn to be eaten.
 
 legitimate powers are the only ones we are obliged to obey. To say that a man gives himself ·to someone else, i.e.
 
 Which brings us back to my original question. hands himself over· free, is to say something absurd and 3 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 14.
 
