The source of governmental variety for ·something much simpler, namely· a view of (b) the and, in short, is always ready to sacrifice (b) the government government as a new body within the state, distinct from (c) to (c) the people, and never to sacrifice the people to the the people and (a) the sovereign, and intermediate between government.
 
 them. Although the artificial body of (b) the government is the Between the government and the state there is this work of (a) another artificial body, so that it has only a kind essential difference: the state exists in its own right, whereas of borrowed and subordinate life, this doesn’t prevent it from the government exists only through the sovereign. Thus being able to act more or less vigorously and quickly, or from the prince’s dominant will is, or should be, nothing but the being in more or less robust health, so to speak. Finally, general will or the law; his force is only the public force without moving directly away from the goal for which it was concentrated in his hands, and the moment he tries to base instituted, the government may deviate •somewhat from that any absolute and independent act on his own authority, the goal—•how much depends on how it is constituted.
 
 whole structure starts to come apart. Look at it this way: If From all these differences arise the various relations the prince came to have a particular will more active than that the government should have to the body of the state.
 
 the sovereign’s, and employed the public force in his hands ·The details of these relations· should vary with particular in obedience to this particular will, there would in effect be contingent changes that the state undergoes; for it often two sovereigns—one rightful and the other actual—and the happens that an intrinsically excellent government becomes social union would evaporate instantly, and the body politic dreadful because its relations to the body politic haven’t would be dissolved. changed in response to defects in the body politic.
 
 However, for the government to have an existence and a real life distinguishing it from the body of the state, and for 2. The source of the variety among forms of all its members to be able to act together towards the goal government for which it was set up, it must have a particular myself, a To set out the general cause of the above differences, we sensibility shared among all its members, a force, a will of its have to distinguish •the government from •the prince, as we own, that causally favours its preservation. This existence earlier distinguished (c) the state from (a) the sovereign.
 
 as a particular implies assemblies, councils, a power to How many members the magistracy can have varies. I deliberate and make decisions about the rights, titles, and saidthattheratioofthesubjectstothesovereignwasgreater privileges that are to belong exclusively to the prince, giving in proportion as the population was more numerous; and to his office as magistrate honours that are proportional to by an obvious and clear analogy we can say the same of the how arduous it is. It is difficult to organise things so that (b) relation of the magistrates to the government.
 
 this subordinate whole fits into (c) the big whole in such a way that in affirming it own constitution (b) doesn’t alter the general constitution, and always distinguishes the particular forceitpossesses, whichismeantforititspreservation, from the public force, which is the preservation of (c) the state; 31 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 32.
 
