The social compact rights and resumes his •natural liberty, while losing the preservation of what he has.
 
 liberty-by-agreement which had been his reason for renounc- Filtering out the inessentials, we’ll find that the social ing •them. compact comes down to this: Properly understood, these clauses come down to one— ’Each of us puts his person and all his power in the total alienation [see Glossary] of each associate, together common under the supreme direction of the general with all his rights, to the whole community. ·This may will, and, in our corporate capacity, we receive each seem drastic, but three features of it make it reasonable·. member as an indivisible part of the whole.’ (i) Because each individual gives himself entirely, what is [Thisisthefirstoccurrenceinthisworkofthephrase‘thegeneralwill’.] happening here for any one individual is the same as what This act of association instantly replaces •the individualis happening for each of the others, and, because this is person status of each contracting party by •a moral and so, no-one has any interest in making things tougher for collective body, composed of as many members as the everyone but himself. assembly has voix [=‘voices’or‘votes’]; and receiving from this (ii) Because the alienation is made without reserve, ·i.e. act its unity, its common identity, its life and its will. This without anything being held back·, the union is as complete public person that is formed by the union of all the other as it can be, and no associate has anything more to demand. persons used to be called a ‘city’,2 and these days is called a ·To see why the association has to be done in this way, ‘republic’ or a ‘body politic’. Its members call it consider· what the situation would be if the individuals •a ‘state’ when thinking of it as passive, retained certain rights. In the absence of any superior to •a ‘sovereign’ when thinking of it as active, and decide issues about this, each individual would be his own •a ‘power’ when setting it alongside others of the same judge in the first case that came up, and this would lead kind.
 
 him to ask to be his own judge across the board; this would Those who are associated in it are collectively called ‘a continue the state of nature, and the association would people’, and are separately called ‘citizens’ (as sharing in the necessarily become inoperative or tyrannical. sovereign power) and ‘subjects’ (as being under the state’s laws. But these terms are often muddled and confused with (iii) Each man in giving himself to everyone gives himself one another: it is enough to know how to distinguish them to no-one; and •the right over himself that the others get is when they are being used with precision.
 
 matched by •the right that he gets over each of them. So he gains as much as he loses, and also gains extra force for the 2 The real meaning of ‘city’ has been almost wholly lost in modern times; most people mistake a town for a city, and a townsman for a citizen. They don’tknowthathousesmakeatown,butcitizensacity.... Ihaveneverreadofthetitle‘citizens’beinggiventothesubjectsofanyprince,noteven theancientMacedoniansortheEnglishoftoday,thoughtheyarenearerlibertythananyoneelse. OnlytheFrenchcasuallyadoptthelabel‘citizens’; that’s because they have no idea of its real meaning (you can see that from their dictionaries!).... They think of the name as expressing •a virtue rather than •a right. When Bodin was trying to talk about our citizens and our townsmen, he blundered badly by confusing these two classes with one another. M. d’Alembert avoided that error in his article on Geneva, clearly distinguishing the four orders of men (or even five, counting mere foreigners) who dwell in our town, of which only two make up the republic. I don’t know of any other French writer who has understood the real meaningoftheword‘citizen’.
 
 7 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 17.
 
