The law a king or name a royal family. In short, any action that has foresight to formulate and announce its acts in advance?
 
 an individual object falls outside the scope of the legislative or how is it to announce them in the hour of need? How power. can a blind multitude, which often doesn’t know what it We see at once that on this account of things certain wills because it rarely knows what is good for it, carry out questions can be laid aside. ‘Whose business it is to make for itself such a great and difficult enterprise as a system laws?’ (They are acts of the general will.) ‘Is the prince is of legislation? The populace left to itself always wills the above the law? (·No·, because he is a member of the state.) good, but left to itself it doesn’t always see what that is. The ‘Can the law be unjust?’ (·No·, because nothing is unjust general will is always in the right, but the judgment that towards itself.) ‘How can we be both •free and •subject to the guides it isn’t always enlightened. It ought to be laws? (·There’s no problem about this·, because the laws are •made to see objects as they are, and sometimes as nothing but records of our volitions.) they ought to appear to it; We see further that because the law unites universality •shown the good road it is in search of, of will with universality of object, nothing that a man—any •secured from the seductive influences of individual man—commands on his own initiative can be a law. That wills, holds even for the sovereign: what he or it commands with •taught to look carefully at other places and times, and regard to a particular matter is not a law but a decree, an •made to weigh the attractions of present and sensible act not of sovereignty but of magistracy. advantages against the danger of distant and hidden evils.
 
 SoIgivethename‘republic’toanystategovernedbylaws, Individuals see the good that they reject; the public wills the whatever form its administration takes; for only when the good that it doesn’t see. Both need guidance. Individuals laws govern does the public interest govern, and the public must be made to bring their wills into line with their reason; thingissomethingreal. [Rousseauexpectedhisreaderstorecognize the populace must be taught to know what it wills. If that chosepublique (= ‘public thing’) is in Latin respublica, which is the that is done, public enlightenment leads to the union of originofrépublique (=‘republic’).] Every legitimate government is republican;8 what government is I will explain later on. understanding and will in the social body: the parts are made to work exactly together, and the whole is raised to its Laws are really only the conditions of civil association.
 
 highest power. For this there has to be a law-maker.
 
 Because the populace is subject to the laws, it ought to be their author: the conditions of •the society ought to be regulated solely by those who come together to form •it. But howwilltheydothis? Byacommonagreement? Byasudden inspiration? Does the body politic have an organ—·like vocal cords and a tongue·—to declare its will? Who can give it the 8 I apply this word not merely to aristocracies and democracies but quite generally to any government directed by the general will, which is the law.
 
 To be legitimate, the government must be not identical with the sovereign, but its minister; so even a monarchy can be a republic. I’ll clarify this in Book3.
 
 19 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 27.
 
