The limits of the sovereign power the conditions he imposes on others; and this admirable can do what he likes with any goods and liberty that these alignment of •interest with •justice gives to the common agreements leave him; so that it is never right for the deliberations a quality of fairness, evenness of balance, sovereign to burden one subject more heavily than another, which is visibly absent from the discussion of any particular because that involves a particular decision and ·therefore· issue, in the absence of a common interest that would bring isn’t within the range of the sovereign’s legitimate activity.
 
 unity.... Once these distinctions are admitted, it is ·seen to be· From whatever direction we approach our principle, we false that the social contract involves any real renunciation always reach the same conclusion: the social compact cre- on the part of the individuals; so false that the situation that ates an equality among the citizens so that they all commit the contract puts them into is really preferable to the one themselves to observe the same conditions and should all they were in before. Instead of an alienation [see Glossary], have the same rights. Thus, from the very nature of the they have made an advantageous exchange, trading in compact, every act of sovereignty—i.e. every authentic act of •an uncertain and precarious way of living for •one the general will—obliges or favours all the citizens equally; so that is better and more secure; that the sovereign recognises only the body of the nation and •natural independence for •liberty, doesn’tdistinguishamongtheindividualsofwhomitismade •the power to harm others for •security for themselves, up. Then what strictly speaking is an act of sovereignty? It’s and not an agreement between a superior and an inferior, but an •their strength, which others might overcome, for •a agreement between the body and each of its members—an right that social union makes invincible.
 
 agreement that is Even their life, which they have dedicated to the state, is •legitimate, because it is based on the social contract, constantlyprotectedbyit; andwhentheyriskitinthestate’s •equitable, because everyone takes part in it, defence, aren’t they just giving back what they have received •useful, because the only object it can have is the from it? What are they doing that they wouldn’t do oftener general good, and and more dangerously in the state of nature, in which they •stable, because guaranteed by the public force and would inevitably have to risk their lives in battles in defence the supreme power. of their means of survival? Everyone does indeed have to So long as the subjects have to submit only to agreements fight when his country needs him; but then no-one ever has of this sort, they don’t obey anyone—only their own will; to fight for himself. We may have to run certain risks on and to ask how far the respective rights of the sovereign behalf of the source of our security; the alternative is to lose and the citizens extend is to ask ·not two questions but our security and run greater risks on behalf of ourselves; only one, namely·: Up to what point can the citizens make haven’t we profited by this exchange?
 
 commitments to themselves, each to all and all to each?
 
 This shows •that the sovereign power—utterly absolute, sacred and inviolable as it is—doesn’t and can’t cross the boundaries set by general agreements, and •that every man 16 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 25.
 
