Maintaining sovereign authority (cont’d) be ready for its natural disadvantages. [Inthepastseveralpages it was they represented. Most of the tumults that arose in Rousseau has written not of ‘cities’ but of ‘states’, and in the next few the comitia in Rome were due to ignorance or neglect of this paragraphs he flips back to ‘states’. This confirms the apparent upshot rule. [Recomitia: seepage61.] The consuls were in them merely ofthefootnoteonpage7,whereheseemstoequatethesetwo.].... But the people’s chairmen; the tribunes were mere speakers;18 how can small states be given the strength to resist great the senate was nothing at all.
 
 ones? ·By alliances·, as the Greek towns once resisted the These intervals of suspension during which the prince great Persian king Xerxes, and as Holland and Switzerland, recognisesoroughttorecogniseanactualsuperior—·namely more recently, have resisted the House of Austria. the assembled populace, the sovereign·—have always been, But if a state can’t be kept within proper limits, there’s from his point of view, a threat; and these •assemblies one thing that can be done, namely: of the people, which are the protective shield around the Don’t have a capital, move the seat of government body politic and the curb on the government, have always from town to town, and assemble by turn in each of been the horror of rulers. That’s why rulers spare no pains, the provincial estates of the country. Populate the objections,difficulties,andpromisestostopthecitizensfrom territory evenly, extend the same rights to everyone, having •them. When the citizens are greedy, cowardly, and bring abundance and life everywhere. small-minded, and love ease more than liberty, they don’t By these means the state will become as strong and as well longholdoutagainsttheredoubledeffortsofthegovernment; governed as it possibly could be. ·In preparing for such a andthus,astheresistingforce·exercisedbythegovernment· state, don’t make grandiose provision for government in each keepsgrowing,thesovereignauthorityeventuallydisappears, ofthetownswhereitwilltemporarilyreside·. Rememberthat and most cities fall and perish before their time. [In that the walls of towns are built entirely out of the ruins of the paragraph, the words ‘the prince...his...’ could as well have been ‘the houses of the countryside! For every palace I see raised in a government...its...’;forRousseauthosearestrictlyequivalent. Thetwo capital, my mind’s eye sees a whole country made desolate. formulations don’t feel as different in French, in which ‘he’ and ‘his’ are notdistinguishedfrom‘it’and‘its’.] But between the •sovereign authority and •arbitrary 14. How the sovereign authority is maintained government there sometimes comes to be an intervening (continued) power about which something must be said.
 
 The moment the populace is legitimately assembled as a sovereign body, the jurisdiction of the government wholly lapses, the executive power is suspended, and the person of •a citizen at the bottom of the social heap is as sacred and inviolable as that of •the first magistrate; because representatives no longer exist in the presence of whatever 18 In nearly the same sense as ‘speaker’ has in the English parliament. The similarity of these functions would have brought the consuls and the tribunesintoconflictevenwhenalljurisdictionhadbeensuspended.
 
 48 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 315.
 
