The comitia in ancient Rome the ‘nobles’) or the tribunes (who, though plebeians, led inform themselves of the merits of the candidate who had the well-to-do citizens). They therefore fell into disrepute, been voted for first time around, and didn’t have to vote and their degradation was such that what the ·full· comitia without knowledge of the case. But under the pretext of curiata should have done was done by an assembly of their avoiding delays this custom was eventually abolished, and thirty lictors. both elections were held on the same day.
 
 The division by centuries was so favourable to the aristoc- The comitia tributa were properly a council of the Roman racy that it’s hard to see at first how the senate ever failed people. Only the tribunes could call them together; at them to prevail in the comitia bearing their name—·the comitia the tribunes were elected and conducted their plebiscites.
 
 centuriata·—by which the consuls, the censors and the other Thesenatehadnostandinginthem,andwasn’tevenentitled senior magistrates were elected. Indeed, of the 193 centuries to be present; and the senators, being forced to obey laws into which the six classes of the whole Roman people were that they couldn’t vote on, were in this respect less free divided, the first class contained 98; and, as voting went than the lowest citizens. This injustice was entirely wrong, solely by centuries, this class alone had a majority over and was alone enough to invalidate the decrees of a body all the rest. When all those centuries were in agreement, to which all its members were not admitted. If the nobles the rest of the votes weren’t even taken; the decision of the had attended the comitia by virtue of their right as citizens, smallest number counted as the decision of the multitude, they would have been there as mere private individuals, and and it’s fair to say that in the comitia centuriata decisions would have had very little influence on a vote reckoned by were regulated by amounts of money more than by numbers counting heads, where the lowest proletarian was as good as of votes. the leader of the senate.
 
 But this extreme authority was modified in two ways. So you can see •that order was achieved by these various First, the tribunes usually belonged to the class of the rich, ways of dividing up this great people and taking its votes; and so did many plebeians; so they counterbalanced the and •that the different divisions didn’t have at their basis influence of the nobles in the first class. some neutral way of carving up the population. Each one of The second way was this. Instead of having the centuries them was preferred because of what was expected to result vote in order, so that the first century always voted first, the from it.
 
 Romansalwayschosebylottery onecenturythatwentahead Never mind the further details. What I have said shows and voted, and then on another day the remaining centuries that were called to vote in the order of their ranks. They usually •the comitia tributa were the most favourable to popuagreed with the vote of the first one that voted. In this way, lar government [=‘democracy’], the authority of example—·i.e. the influence you get from •the comitia centuriata were the most favourable to going first·—was handed out not according to rank but by aristocracy, and lottery, on a democratic principle. •the comitia curiata, in which the populace of Rome This custom had a further advantage. The citizens from formed the majority, was good for nothing but to the countryside had time, between the two elections, to further tyranny and evil designs.
 
 62 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 45.
 
