The law-maker 7. The law-maker [In the French, as in this version, it’s clear that Rousseau is presenting these not as three tasks but as three ways of looking at one task.] What would be needed to discover the best rules of sociIn short, he must deprive man of •his own resources, reety....is a superior intelligence that could see all men’s placing them by •new ones that are alien to him and that he passionswithouthavinganyofthem. Thisintelligencewould can’t employ without help from others. The more completely have to meet these conditions: those natural resources are annihilated, the greater and •it is wholly unrelated to our nature, while knowing it more lasting are the new ones that he acquires, and the through and through; more stable and perfect are the new institutions. ·If you find •its happiness doesn’t depend on us, yet it concerns that last statement extravagant, consider·: If each citizen is itself with our happiness; and lastly nothing and can do nothing without all the others, and if the •it can take the long view, working in one century for resources acquired by the whole are equal or superior to the something to be enjoyed in the next.9 natural forces of all the individuals put together, it can be It would take gods to give men laws!.... But if a great prince said that legislation is at the highest point of perfection.
 
 is a rare kind of man, what will a great legislator be? All the The law-giver is an extraordinary man in the state. If princehastodoistofollowthepatternthatthelaw-giverhas to lay down in the first place. The law-giver is the engineer his intellectual abilities make him so, his office [here = ‘job’] does also. It’s not magistracy or sovereignty. This work who invents the machine; the prince is merely the mechanic that •constitutes the republic isn’t part of its •constitution; whosetsitupandmakesitgo. ‘Atthebirthofsocieties,’ says it is an individual and superior role that has nothing in Montesquieu, ‘the rulers of republics establish institutions, common with human power; for if anyone who commands and then the institutions mould the rulers’ (The Greatness men oughtn’t to have command over the laws, then anyone and Decadence of the Romans, ch. 1.) whohascommandoverthelawsoughtn’ttohaveitovermen; Someone who ventures to tackle the task of making a for if he did, his laws would be the servants of his passions people needs to have a sense of being able and would often merely perpetuate his injustices; his private •to change human nature, so to speak—to transform aims would inevitably mar the sanctity of his work.
 
 each individual, who on his own is a complete and solitary whole, into part of a greater whole from which When Lycurgus gave laws to his country, he began by he in a way receives his life and his being; abdicating as king. It was the custom of most Greek towns to •to alter man’s constitution in order to strengthen it; have foreigners establish their laws. The republics of modern •toreplacethephysicalandindependentexistencethat Italy in many cases followed this example; Geneva did the nature gave us by a partial and moral existence. same and profited by it.10 Rome was at its most prosperous 9 A people becomes famous only when its legislation begins to decline. We don’t know for how many centuries the system of Lycurgus made the SpartanshappybeforetherestofGreecetookanynoticeofit.
 
 10 Those who know Calvin only as a theologian much under-estimate the extent of his genius. The codification of our wise edicts, in which he played a large part, does him great honour.... Whatever revolution time may bring in our religion, so long as the spirit of patriotism and liberty still lives amongusthememoryofthisgreatmanwillbeforeverblessed.
 
 20 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 27.
 
