Protecting the government from take-overs using an old legal term.] Here above all the government, when The periodical assemblies that I spoke of earlier [page47] confronted with claims of rights that it thinks would be are a device for preventing or postponing this calamity. Their especially dangerous to allow, should allow only what it chance of succeeding in that is greater if they don’t have to legally must. This obligation gives the prince a great ad- be formally summoned, because then the prince can’t stop vantage in preserving his power despite the people, without them without openly declaring himself a law-breaker and an its being possible to say he has usurped it; for, seeming enemy of the state.
 
 only to •exercise his rights, he finds it very easy to •extend Theseassemblies,whosesoleobjectisthemaintenanceof them, and to use the ‘keeping the peace’ excuse to prevent the social treaty, should open by the posing of two questions gatherings that were to have been aimed at restoring order. that •must never be suppressed and •should be voted on In this way he takes advantage of •a silence that he doesn’t separately: allow to be broken, or of •irregularities that he causes to (1) ‘Does it please the sovereign to preserve the present be committed, to •assume that he has the support of those form of government?’ whom fear prevents from speaking, and to •punish those (2) ‘Does it please the people to leave its administration who dare to speak. That is how ancient Rome’s decemvirs, in the hands of those who are currently in charge of first elected for one year and then kept on in office for a it?’ second, tried to make their power permanent by forbidding I’m assuming here something that I think I have shown, the comitia to assemble; and by this easy method every namely that there is in the state no fundamental law that government in the world, once it is clothed with the public can’t be revoked. Even the social compact itself can be power, sooner or later usurps the sovereign authority. [The revoked: if all the citizens came together for the agreed decemvirswereaten-mancommitteewhichwas,inRousseau’ssenseof purpose of breaking the compact, there’s no doubt that this theword,‘aprince’. Ofcourseacommitteeisan‘it’,nota‘he’asaprince would very legitimately break it. Grotius even thinks that is—in English, but French doesn’t have different words for ‘he’ and ‘it’; each man can renounce his membership of his own state, seethenoteonpage48.] and recover his natural liberty and his goods on leaving the country.21 It would be absurd if all the citizens in assembly couldn’t do something that each can do by himself.
 
 21 Provided, of course, that he doesn’t leave to escape his obligations and avoid having to serve his country just when it needs him. Flight that case wouldbecriminalandpunishable;itwouldn’tbeawithdrawalbutadesertion.
 
 53 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 41.
 
