Government in general BOOK 3 Before speaking of the different forms of government, let us for ·an individual· man. Here we have what is, in the state, try to fix the exact sense of the word ’government’, which the rationale of government; it’s quite wrong to identify it hasn’t yet been thoroughly explained. with the sovereign—it serves the sovereign .
 
 Then what is government? An intermediate body set up between the subjects and the sovereign to enable them to 1. Government in general communicate with one another; it’s job is to apply the laws and to maintain civil and political liberty.
 
 I warn you that this chapter requires careful reading, and that I don’t have the skill to make myself clear to someone The members of this body are called ‘magistrates’ [see who won’t attend. Glossary] or ‘kings’, i.e. governors, and the body as a whole Every free action is produced by two causes working has the name ‘prince’. Thus, those who claim that the act by together: one is mental, namely the volition that determines which a people puts itself under leaders is not a •contract the act; the other is physical, namely the power that carries are quite right. It is simply a •commission, a •job, in which the act out. When I walk towards something, it is necessary the leaders—mere officials of the sovereign—exercise in its •that I should will to go there and •that my feet should carry name the power that it has lodged with them. The sovereign me there. If a paralytic wills to run and an active man can limit this power, modify it or take it back, just as it doesn’t, they will both stay where they are. The body politic wishes; because the alienation [seeGlossary] of such a right is has the same motive powers, which again divide into will incompatible with the nature of the social body, and contrary and force: will is called ‘legislative power’ and force is called to the goal of association.
 
 ‘executive power’. Nothing is done, nothing should be done, Soinmyusage‘government’(or‘supremeadministration’) without the two of them acting together. names the legitimate exercise of the executive power, and We have seen that the legislative power belongs to the ‘prince’ or ‘magistrate’ names the man or the body entrusted people and can’t belong anywhere else. But the principles I with that administration.
 
 have laid down make it easy to see that the executive power [In the next couple of pages Rousseau uses technical terms from mathcan’t belong to the people as legislature or sovereign [see ematics, in ways that are filtered out from the present version because Glossary], because it consists wholly of particular acts that theyaretoohardtomakeclearhere. (i)Heisusingthetermsinsenses fall outside the scope of the law, and consequently of the which they had then and don’t have now. (ii) He also exploits the ambisovereign, whose acts must always be laws. guities of words that have (or had) mathematical and non-mathematical So the public force needs an agent of its own....to •set it senses. (iii) It is pretty clear that these detours through mathematics— to work under the direction of the general will, to •put the even if they don’t deserve the mockery they have often attracted—don’t state in touch with the sovereign, •to do for the collective reallyhelpustounderstandRousseau’stheoriesofpolitics.] person something like what the union of soul and body does ....The (b) government gets from the (a) sovereign the 29 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 31.
 
