Civic religion There remains (a) the religion of man, i.e. Christianity— he hardly dares to share in the public happiness, for fear he not today’s Christianity but the entirely different Christianity may become puffed up with pride in his country’s glory; if of the Gospel. By means of this holy, sublime, and genuine the state goes downhill, he blesses the hand of God that is religion all men, as children of one God, acknowledge one hard upon His people.
 
 another as brothers, and the society that unites them isn’t For the society to be peaceable and for harmony to be dissolved even at death. maintained, all the citizens would have to be equally good But this religion, having no special relation to the body Christians. If there happened to be a single self-seeker or politic, leaves the laws with only the force they draw from hypocrite—a Catiline or a Cromwell, for instance—he would themselves without adding anything to it; which means that certainly get the better of his pious compatriots. Christian one of the great bonds for uniting the society of the given charity doesn’t make it easy for a man to think ill of another country is left idle. Worse: so far from binding the citizens’ man. As soon as our bad man has worked out a way of hearts to •the state, it detaches them from •that and from all •deceiving everyone else and •getting hold of a share in the earthly things. I know of nothing more contrary to the social public authority, you have spirit. a man established in dignity; God wants us to respect They tell us that a populace of true Christians would him.
 
 form the most perfect society imaginable. I see only one Then before long, you have great difficulty about this idea, namely that a society of true a power; God wants us to obey it.
 
 Christians wouldn’t be a society of men. If the person who has the power abuses it, that is the I go further: such a society, with all its perfection, whip God uses to punish his children. There would be wouldn’t be the strongest or the most durable; its very scruples about driving out the usurper: it would involve perfection would deprive it of its bond of union; the flaw disturbing public peace, using violence, spilling blood; none that would destroy it would lie in its perfection. of this squares with Christian gentleness; and anyway what Everyone would do his duty; the people would be law- does it matter in this vale of sorrows whether we are free abiding; the rulers would be just and temperate, and the men or serfs? The essential thing is to get to heaven, and magistrates upright and incorruptible; the soldiers would resignation—·i.e. putting up with hardship patiently and regard death as a minor thing; there would be no vanity or without complaining·—is just one more way of getting there.
 
 extravagant luxury. So far, so good; but let’s look further. If a foreign war breaks out, the citizens march readily out Christianity is an entirely spiritual religion, occupied to battle; not one of them thinks of flight; they do their duty, solely with heavenly things; the Christian’s country is not but they have no passion for victory; they know how to die of this world. He does his duty, certainly, but does it with better than they know how to conquer. What does it matter a deep lack of interest in whether the work he has put in whether they win or lose? Doesn’t Providence know better has produced good or bad results. Provided he has nothing than they do what should happen to them? Imagine what to reproach himself with, it doesn’t matters much to him a proud, impetuous and passionate enemy could make of whether things go well or ill here below. If the state prospers, this ·Christian· stoicism! Set this Christian army against the 71 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 
