Slavery inconceivable; such an act is null and illegitimate, simply mine; and it doesn’t make sense to speak of my right against because the man who does it is out of his mind. To say the myself.
 
 same of a whole people is to suppose a people of madmen; Grotius and company cite war as another source for the and madness doesn’t create any right.
 
 so-called right of slavery. The winner having (they say) the right to kill the loser, the latter can buy back his life at the Even if each man could alienate himself, he couldn’t price of his freedom; and this agreement is all the more alienate his children: they are born men, and born free; legitimate in being to the advantage of both parties.
 
 their liberty belongs to them, and no-one else has the right to dispose of it. While they are too young to decide But this supposed right to kill the loser is clearly not for themselves, their father can, in their name, lay down an upshot of the state of war. Men are not naturally one conditions for their preservation and well-being; but he can’t anothers’ enemies. [Thenextsentenceisexpandedinwaysthatthe make an irrevocable and unconditional gift of them; such ·small dots· convention can’t easily handle.] Any natural relations a gift is contrary to the ends of nature, and exceeds the amongst them must exist when they are living in their rights of paternity. So an arbitrary [seeGlossary] government primitive independence without any government or social couldn’tbelegitimateunlessineverygenerationthepopulace structure; but at that time they have no inter-relations that [seeGlossary] was the master who was in a position to accept are stable enough to constitute either the state of peace or or reject it; but then the government would no longer be the state of war. War is constituted by a relation between arbitrary! things, not between persons; and because the state of war can’t arise out of simple personal relations but only out To renounce your liberty is to renounce •your status as a of thing-relations, there can’t be a private war (a war of man, •your rights as a human being, and even •your duties man against man) in the state of nature, where there is no as a human being. There can’t be any way of compensating ownership, or in the state of society, where everything is someone who gives up everything. Such a renunciation under the authority of the laws.
 
 is incompatible with man’s nature; to remove all freedom Individual combats, duels and encounters are acts that from his will is to remove all morality from his actions.
 
 can’t constitute a state. As for the private wars that were Finally, an ‘agreement’ to have absolute authority on one authorised by Louis IX of France...., they were abuses of side and unlimited obedience on the other—what an empty feudal government, which was itself an absurd system if ever and contradictory agreement that would have to be! Isn’t it there was one—contrary to the principles of natural right clear that if we are entitled to take anything and everything and to all good government.
 
 from a person, we can’t be under any obligation to him? And isn’t that fact alone—the fact that there is no equivalence, So war is a relation not between man and man but nothing to be exchanged, between the two sides—enough between state and state, and individuals are enemies only acto nullify the ‘agreement’? What right can my slave have cidentally, not as •men nor even as •citizens but as •soldiers; against me? Everything that he has is mine; his right is not as belonging to their country but as defenders of it.1 And 1 TheRomans,whounderstoodandrespectedtherightofwarmorethananyothernationonearthweresoscrupulousaboutthisthatacitizenwasn’t 4 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 14.
 
