Dictatorship framed in such a way that the intermissions can easily be Ifthetroublecanbefixedbyincreasing•thegovernment’s shortened when there’s a need for that. activity, power is concentrated in the hands of one or two of I can’t see that this method has any drawbacks, because •its members. In this case the change is not in the authority the tribunate—as I said before—isn’t part of the constitution, of the laws but only in the form of administering them. But so that its removal won’t do the constitution any harm. if the peril is of such a kind that the apparatus of the laws It also seems to be efficacious, because a newly restored is an obstacle to saving the laws, the method is to nominate magistrate starts not with the power his predecessor had but a supreme ruler who is to silence all the laws and briefly with what the law allows him. [Notice: •Rousseauevidentlythinks suspend the sovereign authority. In such a case there’s no of the periods of remission as involving a change in the membership of doubt about the general will: it’s clear that the people’s first the tribunate; and •although the tribunate isn’t part of the government intention is that the state is not to perish. So the suspension itsmembersareherecalled‘magistrates’.] of the legislative authority is not its abolition; the magistrate who keeps it quiet can’t make it speak; he dominates it, but can’t represent it. The only thing he can’t do is to make laws.
 
 6. Dictatorship [By‘can’tmakeitspeak’Rousseauseemstomean‘can’tspeakforit’.] Theinflexibilityofthelawspreventsthemfrombeingadapted The first method was used by the Roman senate when, in to circumstances, and in some situations that makes them a consecrated formula [i.e. in a solemn ceremony presided over by disastrous, causing the ruin of the state at a time of crisis. priests],itchargedtheconsulswithtakingcareofthesafetyof They require things to be done slowly, in an orderly fashion, the Republic. The second was employed when one of the two requiring a stretch of time that the world doesn’t always consuls nominated a dictator,25 a procedure Rome borrowed provide. Countless things can happen that the legislator from Alba.
 
 hasn’t provided for; you can’t foresee everything; and being During the first period of the Republic they often fell aware of that fact is a highly necessary part of foresight! back on dictatorship, because the state wasn’t yet solidly So it is wrong to want to make political institutions so groundedenoughtobeabletomaintainitselfbythestrength strong that their operation can’t suspended. Even Sparta of its constitution alone. At that time the mœurs made allowed its laws to lapse. superfluous many of the precautions that would have been But only the greatest dangers can outweigh the danger necessary at other times; so there was no fear that a dictator of changing the public order; and the sacred power of the would abuse his authority or try to keep it beyond his term of laws should never be suspended unless the existence of the office. Quite the opposite: those who had dictatorial powers country is at stake. In the rare cases where it is obvious that found them burdensome, and got rid of them as soon as that is what’s at stake, •the public security is provided for possible—as if taking the place of the laws had been too by a special act entrusting •it to whoever is most worthy to troublesome and too perilous a position to retain.
 
 have it. This can be done in either of two ways, depending on the nature of the danger.
 
 25 Thenominationwasmadesecretlybynight,asifthereweresomethingshamefulinsettingamanabovethelaws.
 
 65 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 47.
 
