Monarchy [Notice that the defect of monarchy that Rousseau first called ’essential part ·of the kingdom·, and peace enjoyed in this way under and inevitable’ has turned out to be a defect of which monarchies are a king is worse than the disorders of an interregnum [i.e. a ‘hardlyever’free.] periodbetweentwokings].
 
 For a monarchical state to have a chance of being well What has been done to prevent these evils? Crowns governed, its population and geographical size must be have been made hereditary in certain families, and an order suitable for the abilities of its governor. It is easier to of succession has been set up, to prevent disputes from •conquer than to •rule. With a long enough lever, the world arising when kings die. That is to say, the disadvantages of could be •moved with a single finger; •holding it up needs the regency [=‘havingastand-infortheking’] have been put in place shoulders of Hercules. However small a state is, the prince is of the disadvantages of choice; apparent tranquility has been nearly always too small for it. And when on the other hand a preferred to wise government; and men have preferred •the state is too small for its ruler (this doesn’t happen often!), it risk of having children, monstrosities, or imbeciles as rulers is still badly governed. That’s because the ruler, constantly to •having disputes over the choice of good kings. It hasn’t pursuing his great plans, forgets his people’s interests and been taken into account that in thus exposing ourselves to makes them as wretched by •misusing the talents he has that risk we are loading the dice against ourselves. There as a more limited ruler would make them because of •the was sound sense in what the younger Dionysius said to his lack of the talents he didn’t have. A kingdom should expand father, who reproached him for doing some shameful deed or contract, so to speak, with each reign, according to the by asking, ‘Did I set you the example?’ ‘Ah,’ answered his how able each prince is; whereas ·in a republican system· son, ‘your father wasn’t a king.’ [Hemeant: ‘Yourmoraleducation the abilities of a senate are more constant, so that the state had an advantage that mine didn’t.’ See the penultimate paragraph of can have permanent frontiers without the administration thischapter.] suffering. When a man is set in authority over others, everything conspirestorobhimofhissenseofjusticeandreason. Much The disadvantage that is most felt in monarchical govtrouble, we’re told, is taken to teach young princes the art ernment is the lack of any such continuous succession as both the other forms ·of government, democracy and of •reigning; but it doesn’t seem to do them much good. It aristocracy· have to provide an unbroken bond of union. would be better to begin by teaching them the art of •obeying.
 
 The greatest kings celebrated in history were not brought A king dies, another is needed; elections leave dangerous up to reign: reigning is a science that a man is never so gaps and are full of storms; and unless the citizens are far from having at his command as when he has learned disinterested [=notself-interested’] and upright to a degree that too much of it—a science that he would acquire better by very seldom goes with this kind of government, intrigue and obeying than by commanding. ‘The best and shortest way to corruption abound. Someone to whom the state has sold find out what is good and what is bad is to consider what you itself can hardly help selling it in his turn and getting back, would have wanted to happen or not to happen if someone at the expense of the weak, the money the powerful have extorted from him ·as their price for the throne·. Under such else had been Emperor’ (Tacitus, Histories, i. 16) [Rousseau an administration, greed for money spreads through every quotesthisinLatin].
 
 38 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 37.
 
