) Nor even that a Spirit called Holy, led your forefathers into promised lands, which I do not praise: for where the worst of all trees grew - the cross, - in that land there is nothing to praise!-And truly, wherever this "Holy Spirit" led its knights, always in such campaigns did - goats and geese, and wry-heads and guy-heads run foremost!O my brothers, not backward shall your nobility gaze, but outward!
 
 Exiles shall you be from all fatherlands and forefather-lands!
 
 Your children's land shall you love: let this love be your new nobility, the undiscovered in the remotest seas! For it do I bid your sails search and search!
 
 to your children shall you make amends for being the children of your fathers: all the past shall you thus redeem! This new table do I place over you!
 
 13.
 
 "Why should one live? All is vain! To live - that is to thresh straw; to live - that is to burn oneself and yet not get warm.Such ancient babbling still passes for "wisdom"; because it is old, however, and smells mustily, therefore is it the more honoured. Even mould ennobles.Children might thus speak: they shun the fire because it has burnt them! There is much childishness in the old books of wisdom.
 
 And he who ever "threshes straw," why should he be allowed to rail at threshing! Such a fool one would have to muzzle!
 
 Such persons sit down to the table and bring nothing with them, not even good hunger: - and then do they rail: "All is vain!" But to eat and drink well, my brothers, is truly no vain art! Break up, break up for me the tables of the never-joyous ones!
 
 14.
 
 "To the clean are all things clean" - thus say the people. I, however, say to you: To the swine all things become swinish!
 
 Therefore preach the visionaries and bowed-heads (whose hearts are also bowed down): "The world itself is a filthy monster." For these are all unclean spirits; especially those, however, who have no peace or rest, unless they see the world from the backside - the 161 believers in an afterworld!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
