In February, Nietzsche isn’t even done with his doctorate but is surprised to be made a Professor in Philology at Basel University thanks to help from Ritschl. The pay is great, but he soon complains, "What’s so great about this luck? It’s just hard work and the boring routine of the job."

In April, Nietzsche gives up his German citizenship to become Swiss. But because of some residency rules, he never actually becomes Swiss and stays officially without a country for the rest of his life. In his first university lecture, Nietzsche shares his bold idea that philology (the study of language and texts) should serve philosophy.

From April to July, Nietzsche visits Wagner’s home a lot and becomes almost like part of the family. He has a busy schedule teaching at the university and a nearby high school, mostly about Greek and Roman classics.

In September, Nietzsche tries being a vegetarian but stops soon after arguing with Wagner about it. On December 25, he acts like “Santa Claus” by buying lots of gifts for Wagner’s future wife, Cosima, in Basel.

In January and February, Nietzsche thinks about getting a dog but never actually gets one. Wagner writes to him, "Right now, you’re the only person I can be really serious with—except for my wife."

In June, Franz Overbeck, a Theology professor at Basel, moves in with Nietzsche. They become close friends for life.

In August, Nietzsche volunteers to help the German side in the Franco-Prussian war. The university lets him take time off, but since Switzerland is neutral, he can only work as a medic. He gets sick while caring for badly hurt soldiers and spends a month recovering at home.

On January 26, Nietzsche tries to get a job as a philosophy professor but doesn’t succeed. In April, his first book, The Birth of Tragedy, is ready to send out. The book is different because it’s very lively and doesn’t have footnotes pointing to other sources.

On January 27, The Birth of Tragedy is published. The Wagners love it, but Ritschl calls it “clever drunkenness.” In March, Nietzsche’s dream of being a music composer is hurt when conductor Hans Von Bulow criticizes his music.
