One day, you might cry out: "Everything is fake!" There are feelings that try to destroy the lonely person; if they fail, they must die themselves. But can you do it – can you be a killer?

Have you ever felt, my friend, what “disdain” means? And the pain of trying to be fair to people who look down on you?

You make a lot of people think differently about you; they blame you a lot for that. You got close to them but then moved past them, and they never forgive you for that.

You go beyond them: but the higher you rise, the less they notice you. But the one who flies away is hated the most.

You might say, "How could you be fair to me? I’ll take your unfairness instead."

People throw unfairness and insults at the lonely one; but, my friend, if you want to be a star, you have to keep shining anyway!

Watch out for the “good” and “just” people! They would rather punish anyone who creates their own idea of being good – they hate those who stand alone.

Also, be careful of simple-minded people! They think anything complicated is bad, and they might even want to harm what they don’t understand.

And watch out for the attacks from your own love! A lonely person often reaches out too easily to anyone who comes near.

You can’t give your full trust to many people; sometimes you have to hold back, like giving a paw instead of a hand – and I hope your paw has claws.

But your worst enemy will always be yourself; you trap yourself in your own dark places.

You, the lonely one, are on the path to yourself! And beyond yourself and your inner struggles lies your true way!

You will be a rebel to yourself, a wizard, a fortune teller, a fool, a doubter, a lost soul, and a troublemaker.

You must be ready to burn yourself in your own fire; how else can you become new if you don’t first become ashes?

You, the lonely one, are on the path of creation: you will make a God for yourself out of your own inner demons!

You, the lonely one, are on the path of love: you love yourself, but because of that, you also hate yourself, like only those who truly love can.

The loving one wants to create because he despises! Who really knows love if they haven’t had to hate what they once loved?
