" Stiff-necked and artful, like the ass, have you always been, as the advocates of the people.
 
 And many a powerful one who wanted to run well with the people, has harnessed in front of his horses - a donkey, a famous wise man.
 
 And now, you famous wise ones, I would have you finally throw off entirely the skin of the lion!
 
 The skin of the beast of prey, the speckled skin, and the disheveled locks of the investigator, the searcher, and the conqueror!
 
 Ah! for me to learn to believe in your "conscientiousness," you would first have to break your venerating will.
 
 Conscientious - so call I him who goes into God-forsaken wildernesses, and has broken his venerating heart.
 
 In the yellow sands and burnt by the sun, he doubtless peers thirstily at the isles rich in fountains, where life reposes under shady trees.
 
 But his thirst does not persuade him to become like those comfortable ones: for where there are oases, there are also idols.
 
 Hungry, fierce, lonesome, God-forsaken: so does the lion-will wish itself.
 
 Free from the happiness of slaves, redeemed from deities and adorations, fearless and fear-inspiring, grand and lonesome: so is the will of the conscientious.
 
 In the wilderness have ever dwelt the conscientious, the free spirits, as lords of the wilderness; but in the cities dwell the well-foddered, famous wise ones - the draught-beasts.
 
 For, always do they draw, as asses - the people's carts!
 
 Not that I on that account upbraid them: but serving ones do they remain, and harnessed ones, even though they glitter in golden harness.
 
 And often have they been good servants and worthy of their hire. For thus says virtue: "If you must be a servant, seek him to whom your service is most useful!
 
 The spirit and virtue of your master shall advance by you being his servant: thus will you yourself advance with his spirit and virtue!" And truly, you famous wise ones, you servants of the people! you yourselves have advanced with the people's spirit and virtue - and the people by you! To your honor do I say it!
 
 But the people you remain for me, even with your virtues, the people with purblind eyes - the people who know not what spirit is!
 
 Spirit is life which itself cuts into life: by its own torture does it increase 84 its own knowledge, - did you know that before?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
