Since I must soon confront humanity with the greatest demand ever made of it, it seems necessary to say who and what I am. Truly, this ought to be well known already, for I have not " held my tongue" about myself. But the difference between the greatness of my task and the smallness of my contemporaries, is revealed by the fact that people have neither heard me nor yet seen me. I live on my own self-made credit … … Under these circumstances, it is my duty - against which my usual reserve and, even more, the pride of my instincts rebel - to say : Listen ! for I am such and such a person. Above all, do not mistake me for someone else! … [3] (preface, sec. 1) … I am, for example, in no way a bogey man, or moral monster. In truth, I am the very opposite of the kind of man that has been honoured until now as virtuous. Between ourselves, it seems to me that exactly this is part of my pride. I am a disciple of the philosopher Dionysus, and I would even prefer to be a satyr than a saint. But just read this little book !
 
 Maybe I have been successful, perhaps this work had no other meaning than to give expression to this contrast in a cheerful and philanthropic manner… "[3] (preface, sec. 2) THE ANTICHRIST Age 44 - 1888 (Published November 1894) "This book belongs to the most rare of men. Perhaps not one of them is yet alive… . First the day after tomorrow must come for me. Some men are born posthumously.
 
 The conditions under which anyone understands me, and necessarily understands me—I know them only too well. Even to endure my seriousness, my passion, he must carry intellectual integrity to the verge of hardness. He must be accustomed to living on mountain tops—and to looking upon the wretched gabble of politics and nationalism as beneath him. He must have become indifferent; he must never ask of the truth whether it brings profit to him or a fatality to him… He must have an inclination, born of strength, for questions that no one has the courage for; 269 the courage for the forbidden; predestination for the labyrinth.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
