There are still many empty seats for the lonesome and the twosome, fanned by the fragrance of silent seas.
 
 Open still remains a free life for great souls. Truly, he who possesses little is so much the less possessed: praised be a little poverty!
 
 There, where the state ceases - there only commences the man who is not superfluous: there commences the song of the necessary ones, the single and irreplaceable melody.
 
 There, where the state ceases - pray look there, my brothers! Do you not see it, the rainbow and the bridges of the overman? Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 1, (12) THE FLIES IN THE MARKET-PLACE Flee, my friend, into your solitude! I see you deafened with the noise of the great men, and stung all over with the stings of the little ones.
 
 Admirably do forest and rock know how to be silent with you.
 
 Resemble again the tree which you love, the broad-branched one - silently and attentively it overhangs the sea.
 
 Where solitude ends, there begins the market-place; and where the market-place begins, there begins also the noise of the great actors, and the buzzing of the poison-flies.
 
 In the world even the best things are worthless without those who represent them: those showmen, the people call great men.
 
 Little, do the people understand what is great - that is to say, the creating agency. But they have a taste for all showmen and actors of great things.
 
 Around the inventors of new values revolves the world: - invisibly it revolves. But around the actors revolve the people and the glory: such is the course of things.
 
 Spirit, has the actor, but little conscience of the spirit. He believes always in that which he believes most strongly - in himself!
 
 Tomorrow he has a new belief, and the day after, one still newer. Sharp perceptions has he, like the people, and changeable humours.
 
 To upset - that means with him to prove. To drive mad - that means with him to convince. And blood is counted by him as the best of all 45 arguments.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
