Who, however, could take your melancholy off your shoulders? For that I am too weak. Long, truly, should we have to wait until someone re-awoke your God for you.
 
 For that old God lives no more: he is indeed dead." Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 4, (7) THE UGLIEST MAN -AND again did Zarathustra's feet run through mountains and forests, and his eyes sought and sought, but nowhere was he to be seen whom they wanted to see - the sorely distressed sufferer and crier. On the whole way, however, he rejoiced in his heart and was full of gratitude.
 
 "What good things," said he, "has this day given me, as amends for its bad beginning! What strange interlocutors have I found!
 
 At their words will I now chew a long while as at good corn; small shall my teeth grind and crush them, until they flow like milk into my soul!"When, however, the path again curved round a rock, all at once the landscape changed, and Zarathustra entered into a realm of death. Here bristled aloft black and red cliffs, without any grass, tree, or bird's voice.
 
 For it was a valley which all animals avoided, even the beasts of prey, except that a species of ugly, thick, green serpent came here to die when they became old. Therefore the shepherds called this valley: "Serpentdeath." Zarathustra, however, became absorbed in dark recollections, for it seemed to him as if he had once before stood in this valley. And much heaviness settled on his mind, so that he walked slowly and always more slowly, and at last stood still. Then, however, when he opened his eyes, he saw something sitting by the wayside shaped like a man, and hardly like a man, something nondescript. And all at once there came over Zarathustra a great shame, because he had gazed on such a thing. Blushing up to the very roots of his white hair, he turned aside his glance, and raised his foot that he might leave this ill-starred place. Then, however, became the dead wilderness vocal: for from the ground a noise welled up, gurgling and rattling, as water gurgles and rattles at night through 204 stopped-up water-pipes; and at last it turned into human voice and human speech: - it sounded thus: "Zarathustra!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
