The phantom that runs on before you, my brother, is fairer than you; why do you not give to it your flesh and your bones? But you fear, and run to your neighbor.
 
 You cannot endure it with yourselves, and do not love yourselves sufficiently: so you seek to mislead your neighbor into love, and would rather gild yourselves with his error.
 
 Would that you could not endure it with any kind of near ones, or their neighbor; then would you have to create your friend and his overflowing heart out of yourselves.
 
 You call in a witness when you want to speak well of yourselves; and when you have misled him to think well of you, you also think well of yourselves.
 
 Not only does he lie, who speaks contrary to his knowledge, but more so, he who speaks contrary to his ignorance. And thus speak you of yourselves in your intercourse, and belie your neighbor with yourselves.
 
 Thus says the fool: "Association with men spoils the character, especially when one has none." The one goes to his neighbor because he seeks himself, and the other because he would rather lose himself. Your bad love to yourselves makes solitude a prison to you.
 
 The furthest ones are they who pay for your love to the near ones; and when there are but five of you together, a sixth must always die.
 
 I love not your festivals either: too many actors found I there, and even the spectators often behaved like actors.
 
 Not the neighbor do I teach you, but the friend. Let the friend be the festival of the earth to you, and a foretaste of the overman.
 
 I teach you the friend and his overflowing heart. But one must know how to be a sponge, if one would be loved by over-flowing hearts.
 
 I teach you the friend in whom the world stands complete, a capsule of the good, - the creating friend, who has always a complete world to bestow.
 
 And as the world unrolled itself for him, so rolls it together again for him in rings, as the growth of good through evil, as the growth of purpose out of chance.
 
 Let the future and the furthest be the motive of your today; in your friend shall you love the overman as your motive.
 
 My brothers, I advise you not to neighbor-love - I advise you to furthest love! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 53 Part 1, (17) THE WAY OF THE CREATING ONE Would you go into isolation, my brother?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
