43 November: Nietzsche sends a copy of Genealogy of Morals to Georg Brandes, the influential and famous Danish literary critic, who replies, "you are without doubt the most exciting of German writers."[4] (p.314).
 
 A lively correspondence ensues.
 
 Early April: Nietzsche discovers Turin and is delighted with the dry weather, the people, the cuisine and the beautiful, "quiet, aristocratic" atmosphere of the city.
 
 April: Brandes writes that he had been "seized with a kind of anger that no one in Scandinavia knows of you, and had quickly decided to make you famous all in one blow". He will give a series of open lectures at the University of Copenhagen on Nietzsche's philosophy. The five lectures are a great success and at the end Brandes is given a ovation by a large audience. In May he tells Nietzsche, "Your name now, I can say without exaggeration, is very popular in all intelligent circles of Copenhagen and known, at least in all of Scandinavia.[7] (p.289) Later in the year Brandes "completely wins over" the influential Swedish writer August Strindberg, who tells Nietzsche, "I am ending all my letters, 'Read Nietzsche' ". [4] (p.333) Nietzsche is delighted by all this. The rest of the year becomes one of his happiest and most productive years. His health and energy seem much better. He senses approaching fame. He writes 5 books where his usual pace is one per year. Turin continues to enchant him especially after September.
 
 May: He begins work on The Wagner Case.
 
 June: Nietzsche leaves for Sils Maria. He works on Twilight of the Idols.
 
 September: He finishes The Wagner Case and the Twilight of the Idols and begins work on the The Antichrist.
 
 44 October: On the 15th, his 44th birthday, he starts writing his autobiography and commentary on his writings entitled Ecce Homo.
 
 End of November: The Antichrist is all but finished.
 
 December 12-15 Nietzsche quickly assembles a short book of previous passages called Nietzsche Contro Wagner.
 
 End of December: Ecce Homo is almost completed.
 
 January 3: On a street in Turin, Italy, Nietzsche collapses unconscious after tearfully flinging his arms around a horse that was being beaten by its owner. Awaking later in his room, he writes and sends off several strange, clowning letters. He is brought to a clinic in Basel. At first his 262 friends think he would recover.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
