In you there is much to be laughed at, and especially your fear of what has thus far been called "the devil!" So alien are you in your souls to what is great, that to you the overman would be frightful in his goodness!
 
 And you wise and knowing ones, you would flee from the solar-glow of the wisdom in which the overman joyfully baths his nakedness!
 
 You highest men who have come within my ken! this is my doubt of you, and my secret laughter: I suspect you would call my overman - a devil!
 
 Ah, I became tired of those highest and best ones: from their "height" did I long to be up, out, and away to the overman!
 
 A horror came over me when I saw those best ones naked: then there grew for me the pinions to soar away into distant futures.
 
 Into more distant futures, into more southern souths than ever artist dreamed of: there, where gods are ashamed of all clothes!
 
 But disguised do I want to see you, you neighbours and fellowmen, and well-attired and vain and estimable, as "the good and just;"And disguised will I myself sit among you - that I may mistake you and myself: for that is my last manly prudence. Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (22) THE STILLEST HOUR WHAT has happened to me, my friends? you see me troubled, driven forth, unwillingly obedient, ready to go - alas, to go away from you!
 
 Yes, once more must Zarathustra retire to his solitude: but unjoyously this time does the bear go back to his cave!
 
 What has happened to me? Who orders this? - Ah, my angry mistress wishes it so; she spoke to me. Have I ever named her name to you?
 
 Yesterday towards evening there spoke to me my stillest hour: that is the name of my terrible mistress.
 
 And thus did it happen - for everything must I tell you, that your heart may not harden against the suddenly departing one!
 
 Do you know the terror of him who falls asleep?To the very toes he is terrified, because the ground gives way under him, and the dream begins.
 
 This do I speak to you in parable. Yesterday at the stillest hour did the 117 ground give way under me: the dream began.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
