" Thus spoke Zarathustra. And again came the cries and laughter of the higher men out of the cave: then began he anew: "They bite at it, my bait takes, there departs also from them their enemy, the spirit of gravity. Now do they learn to laugh at themselves: do I hear rightly?
 
 My virile food takes effect, my strong and savoury sayings: and truly, I did not nourish them with flatulent vegetables! But with warrior-food, with conqueror-food: new desires did I awaken.
 
 New hopes are in their arms and legs, their hearts expand. They find new words, soon will their spirits breathe wantonness.
 
 Such food may sure enough not be proper for children, nor even for longing girls old and young. One persuades their bowels otherwise; I am not their physician and teacher.
 
 The disgust departs from these higher men; well! that is my victory. In my domain they become assured; all stupid shame flies away; they empty themselves.
 
 They empty their hearts, good times return to them, they keep holiday and ruminate, - they become thankful.
 
 That do I take as the best sign: they become thankful. Not long will it be ere they devise festivals, and put up memorials to their old joys.
 
 They are convalescents!" Thus spoke Zarathustra joyfully to his heart and gazed outward; his animals, however, pressed up to him, and honoured his happiness and his silence.
 
 2.
 
 All on a sudden however, Zarathustra's ear was frightened: for the cave which had thus far been full of noise and laughter, became all at once still as death; - his nose, however, smelt a sweet-scented vapour and incense-odour, as if from burning pine-cones.
 
 "What happens? What are they about?" he asked himself, and stole up to the entrance, that he might be able unobserved to see his guests. But wonder upon wonder! what was he then obliged to behold with his own eyes!
 
 "They have all of them become pious again, they pray, they are mad!" said he, and was astonished beyond measure. And indeed! all these higher men, the two kings, the pope out of service, the evil magician, the voluntary beggar, the wanderer and shadow, the old soothsayer, the spiritually conscientious one, and the ugliest man - they all lay on their knees like children and credulous old women, and worshipped the ass.
 
 242 And just then began the ugliest man to gurgle and snort, as if something unutterable in him tried to find expression; when, however, he had actually found words, Behold.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
