"Well!" called he upwards, "thus is it pleasing and proper to me.
 
 my animals are awake, for I am awake.
 
 My eagle is awake, and like me honours the sun. With eagle-talons does it grasp at the new light. you are my proper animals; I love you.
 
 But still do I lack my proper men!" Thus spoke Zarathustra; then, however, it happened that all on a sudden he became aware that he was flocked around and fluttered around, as if by innumerable birds, - the whizzing of so many wings, however, and the crowding around his head was so great that he shut his eyes.
 
 And truly, there came down upon him as it were a cloud, like a cloud of arrows which pours upon a new enemy. But behold, here it was a cloud of love, and showered upon a new friend.
 
 "What happens to me?" thought Zarathustra in his astonished heart, and slowly seated himself on the big stone which lay close to the exit from his cave. But while he grasped about with his hands, around him, above him and below him, and repelled the tender birds, behold, there then happened to him something still stranger: for he grasped thereby unawares into a mass of thick, warm, shaggy hair; at the same time, however, there sounded before him a roar, - a long, soft lion-roar.
 
 "The sign comes," said Zarathustra, and a change came over his heart.
 
 And in truth, when it turned clear before him, there lay a yellow, powerful animal at his feet, resting its head on his knee, - unwilling to leave him out of love, and doing like a dog which again finds its old master.
 
 The doves, however, were no less eager with their love than the lion; and whenever a dove whisked over its nose, the lion shook its head and wondered and laughed.
 
 When all this went on Zarathustra spoke only a word: "My children are close, my children"-, then he became quite mute. His heart, however, was loosed, and from his eyes there dropped down tears and fell upon his hands. And he took no further notice of anything, but sat there motionless, without repelling the animals further. Then flew the doves to and fro, and perched on his shoulder, and caressed his white hair, and did not tire of their tenderness and joyousness. The strong lion, however, licked always the tears that fell on Zarathustra's hands, and roared and growled shyly. Thus did these animals do.All this went on for a long time, or a short time: for properly speaking, there is no time on earth for such things-. Meanwhile, however, the higher men had awakened in Zarathustra's cave, and marshalled themselves 253 for a procession to go to meet Zarathustra, and give him their morning greeting: for they had found when they awakened that he no longer tarried with them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
