' And why he wishes to do away with beggars." "Be of good cheer," replied Zarathustra, "as I am. Abide by your customs, you excellent one: grind your corn, drink your water, praise your cooking, - if only it make you glad!
 
 I am a law only for my own; I am not a law for all. He, however, who belongs to me must be strong of bone and light of foot,-Joyous in fight and feast, no sulker, no John o' Dreams, ready for the hardest task as for the feast, healthy and hale.
 
 The best belongs to my and me; and if it be not given us, then do we take it: - the best food, the purest sky, the strongest thoughts, the fairest women!"Thus spoke Zarathustra; the king on the right however answered and said: "Strange! Did one ever hear such sensible things out of the mouth of a wise man?
 
 And truly, it is the strangest thing in a wise man, if over and above, he be still sensible, and not an ass." Thus spoke the king on the right and wondered; the ass however, with ill-will, said YE-A to his remark. This however was the beginning of that long repast which is called "The Supper" in the history-books. At this there was nothing else spoken of but the higher man.
 
 Part 4, (13) THE HIGHER MAN 1.
 
 WHEN I came to men for the first time, then did I commit the hermit folly, the great folly: I appeared on the market-place.
 
 And when I spoke to all, I spoke to none. In the evening, however, rope-dancers were my companions, and corpses; and I myself almost a corpse.
 
 With the new morning, however, there came to me a new truth: then did I learn to say: "Of what account to me are market-place and populace and populace-noise and long populace-cars!" You higher men, learn this from me: On the market-place no one believes in higher men. But if you will speak there, very well! The populace, however, blinks: "We are all equal." "You higher men," - so blinks the populace - "there are no higher men, we are all equal; man is man, before God - we are all equal!" 222 Before God!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
