AT THIS place in the litany, however, Zarathustra could no longer control himself; he himself cried out YE-A, louder even than the ass, and sprang into the midst of his maddened guests. "Whatever are you about, you grown-up children?" he exclaimed, pulling up the praying ones from the ground. "Alas, if anyone else, except Zarathustra, had seen you: Every one would think you the worst blasphemers, or the most very foolish old women, with your new belief!
 
 And you yourself, you old pope, how is it in accordance with you, to adore an ass in such a manner as God?""O Zarathustra," answered the pope, "forgive me, but in divine matters I am more enlightened even than you. And it is right that it should be so.
 
 Better to adore God so, in this form, than in no form at all! Think over this saying, my exalted friend: you will readily divine that in such a saying there is wisdom.
 
 He who said 'God is a Spirit' - made the greatest stride and slide thus far made on earth towards unbelief: such a dictum is not easily amended again on earth!
 
 My old heart leaps and bounds because there is still something to adore on earth. Forgive it, O Zarathustra, to an old, pious pontiff-heart!-" -"And you," said Zarathustra to the wanderer and shadow, "you call and think yourself a free spirit? And you here practise such idolatry and hierolatry?
 
 Worse truly, do you here than with your bad brown girls, you bad, new believer!" "It is sad enough," answered the wanderer and shadow, "you are right: but how can I help it! The old God lives again, O Zarathustra, you may say what you wilt.
 
 The ugliest man is to blame for it all: he has reawakened him. And if he say that he once killed him, with Gods death is always just a prejudice." -"And you," said Zarathustra, "you bad old magician, what didst you do! Who ought to believe any longer in you in this free age, when you believe in such divine donkeyism?
 
 It was a stupid thing that you didst; how could you, a shrewd man, do such a stupid thing!" "O Zarathustra," answered the shrewd magician, "you are right, it was a stupid thing, - it was also repugnant to me." -"And you even," said Zarathustra to the spiritually conscientious one, "consider, and put your finger to your nose! does nothing go against 244 your conscience here?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
