The first onslaught (1873) was directed against German culture, upon which I looked down even at that time with unmitigated contempt.
 
 Without either sense, substance, or goal, it was simply " public opinion." There could be no more dangerous misunderstanding than to suppose that Germany's success at arms proved anything in favour of German culture-and still less the triumph of this culture over that of France.
 
 The second essay (1874) brings to light that which is dangerous, that which corrodes and poisons life in our manner of pursuing scientific study : Life is diseased, thanks to this dehumanised piece of clockwork and mechanism, thanks to the " impersonality" of the workman, and the false economy of the " division of labour." The object, which is culture, is lost sight of: modern scientific activity as a means thereto simply produces barbarism. In this treatise, the " historical sense," of which this century is so proud, is for the first time recognised as sickness, as a typical symptom of decay. In the third and fourth essays, a sign-post is set up pointing to a higher concept of culture, to a re-establishment of the notion " culture " ; and two pictures of the hardest self-love and self-discipline are presented, two essentially un-modern types, full of the most sovereign contempt for all that which lay around them and was called " Empire," " Culture," " Christianity," " Bismarck," and " Success," - these two types were Schopenhauer and Wagner, or, in a word, Nietzsche… ." [3] part 5, sec. 2 HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN Age 34 - 35, 1877 - 1879 "… Human, all-too-Human, with its two sequels, is the memorial of a crisis. It is called a book for free spirits: almost every sentence in it is the expression of a triumph - by means of it I purged myself of everything in me which was foreign to my nature. Idealism is foreign to me : the title of the book means: "Where you see ideal things I see - human, alas ! alltoo-human things ! " … I know men better. The word " free spirit" in this book must not be understood as anything else than a spirit that has become free, that has once more taken possession of itself." [3] part 6, sec. 1 THE DAWN 265 Age 36 - 1880 "…
 

 
(Simplified)
 
