and Whence? and where?
 
 Here laugh, laugh, my hearty, healthy wickedness! From high mountains cast down your glittering scorn-laughter! Allure for me with your glittering the finest human fish!
 
 And whatever belongs to me in all seas, my in-and-for-me in all things - fish that out for me, bring that up to me: for that do I wait, the wickedest of all fish-catchers.
 
 Out! out! my fishing-hook! In and down, you bait of my happiness!
 
 Drip your sweetest dew, you honey of my heart! Bite, my fishing-hook, into the belly of all black affliction!
 
 Look out, look out, my eye! Oh, how many seas round about me, what dawning human futures! And above me - what rosy red stillness! What unclouded silence!
 
 Part 4, (2) THE CRY OF DISTRESS THE next day sat Zarathustra again on the stone in front of his cave, whilst his animals roved about in the world outside to bring home new food, - also new honey: for Zarathustra had spent and wasted the old honey to the very last particle. When he thus sat, however, with a stick in his hand, tracing the shadow of his figure on the earth, and reflecting truly! not upon himself and his shadow, - all at once he startled and shrank back: for he saw another shadow beside his own. And when he hastily looked around and stood up, behold, there stood the soothsayer beside him, the same whom he had once given to eat and drink at his table, the proclaimer of the great weariness, who taught: "All is alike, nothing is worthwhile, the world is without meaning, knowledge strangles." But his face had changed since then; and when Zarathustra looked into his eyes, his heart was startled once more: so much evil announcement and ashy-grey lightning passed over that countenance.
 
 The soothsayer, who had perceived what went on in Zarathustra's soul, wiped his face with his hand, as if he would wipe out the impression; the same did also Zarathustra. And when both of them had thus silently composed and strengthened themselves, they gave each other the hand, as a token that they wanted once more to recognise each other.
 
 "Welcome hither," said Zarathustra, "you soothsayer of the great 186 weariness, not in vain shall you once have been my messmate and guest.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
