Sorrowfully did he go about and wearily; and he became like to those of whom the soothsayer had spoken.Truly, said he to his disciples, a little while, and there comes the long twilight. Alas, how shall I preserve my light through it!
 
 That it may not smother in this sorrowfulness! To remoter worlds shall it be a light, and also to remotest nights!
 
 Thus did Zarathustra go about grieved in his heart, and for three days he did not take any meat or drink: he had no rest, and lost his speech. At last it came to pass that he fell into a deep sleep. His disciples, however, sat around him in long night-watches, and waited anxiously to see if he would awake, and speak again, and recover from his affliction.
 
 And this is the discourse that Zarathustra spoke when he awoke; his voice, however, came to his disciples as from afar: Hear, I pray you, the dream that I dreamed, my friends, and help me to divine its meaning!
 
 A riddle is it still to me, this dream; the meaning is hidden in it and encaged, and does not yet fly above it on free pinions.
 
 All life had I renounced, so I dreamed. Night-watchman and graveguardian had I become, aloft, in the lone mountain-fortress of Death.
 
 There did I guard his coffins: full stood the musty vaults of those trophies of victory. Out of glass coffins did vanquished life gaze upon me.
 
 The odour of dust-covered eternities did I breathe: sultry and dustcovered lay my soul. And who could have aired his soul there!
 
 Brightness of midnight was ever around me; lonesomeness cowered beside her; and as a third, death-rattle stillness, the worst of my female friends.
 
 Keys did I carry, the rustiest of all keys; and I knew how to open with them the most creaking of all gates.
 
 Like a bitterly angry croaking ran the sound through the long corridors when the leaves of the gate opened: ungraciously did this bird cry, unwillingly was it awakened.
 
 But more frightful even, and more heart-strangling was it, when it again became silent and still all around, and I alone sat in that malignant silence.
 
 Thus did time pass with me, and slip by, if time there still was: what do I know thereof! But at last there happened that which awoke me.
 
 Thrice did there peal peals at the gate like thunders, thrice did the 109 vaults resound and howl again: then did I go to the gate.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
