So it is with us also!"-Thus spoke to each other the two old night-watchmen and lightscarers, and tooted thereupon sorrowfully on their horns: so did it happen yesternight at the garden-wall.
 
 To me, however, did the heart writhe with laughter, and was like to break; it knew not where to go, and sunk into the midriff.
 
 Truly, it will be my death yet - to choke with laughter when I see asses drunken, and hear night-watchmen thus doubt about God.
 
 has the time not long since passed for all such doubts? Who may nowadays awaken such old slumbering, light-shunning things!
 
 With the old Deities has it long since come to an end: - and truly, a good joyful Deity-end had they!
 
 They did not "begloom" themselves to death - that do people fabricate!
 
 On the contrary, they - laughed themselves to death once on a time!
 
 That took place when the ungodliest utterance came from a God himself - the utterance: "There is but one God! you shall have no other gods before me!"-An old grim-beard of a God, a jealous one, forgot himself in such wise:And all the gods then laughed, and shook upon their thrones, and exclaimed: "Is it not just divinity that there are gods, but no God?" He that has an ear let him hear. Thus talked Zarathustra in the city he loved, which is surnamed "The Pied Cow." For from here he had but two days to travel to reach once more his cave and his animals; his soul, however, rejoiced unceasingly on account of the closeness of his return home.
 
 Part 3, (9) THE RETURN HOME O LONESOMENESS! My home, lonesomeness! Too long have I lived wildly in wild remoteness, to return to you without tears!
 
 Now threaten me with the finger as mothers threaten; now smile upon me as mothers smile; now say just: "Who was it that like a whirlwind once rushed away from me?-Who when departing called out: 'Too long have I sat with lonesomeness; there have I unlearned silence!' That have you learned now surely?
 
 145 O Zarathustra, everything do I know; and that you were more forsaken among the many, you unique one, than you ever were with me!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
