And when they are even the last men, and more beast than man, then rises and rises the populace in honour, and at last says even the populace-virtue: 'Behold, I alone am virtue!'"What have I just heard? answered Zarathustra. What wisdom in kings!
 
 I am enchanted, and truly, I have already promptings to make a rhyme thereon:-Even if it should happen to be a rhyme not suited for every one's ears.
 
 I unlearned long ago to have consideration for long ears. Well then! Well now!
 
 (Here, however, it happened that the ass also found utterance: it said distinctly and with malevolence, Y-E-A.) 'Twas once - methinks year one of our blessed Lord,Drunk without wine, the Sybil thus deplored:"How ill things go!
 
 Decline! Decline! Ne'er sank the world so low!
 
 Rome now has turned harlot and harlot-stew, Rome's Caesar a beast, and God - has turned Jew!
 
 2.
 
 With those rhymes of Zarathustra the kings were delighted; the king on the right, however, said: "O Zarathustra, how well it was that we set out to see you!
 
 For your enemies showed us your likeness in their mirror: there looked you with the grimace of a devil, and sneeringly: so that we were afraid of you.
 
 But what good did it do! Always didst you prick us anew in heart and ear with your sayings. Then did we say at last: What does it matter how he look!
 
 We must hear him; him who teaches: 'You shall love peace as a means to new wars, and the short peace more than the long!' No one ever spoke such warlike words: 'What is good? To be brave is good. It is the good war that sanctifies every cause.' O Zarathustra, our fathers' blood stirred in our veins at such words: it was like the voice of spring to old wine-casks.
 
 When the swords ran among one another like red-spotted serpents, then did our fathers become fond of life; the sun of every peace seemed to them languid and lukewarm, the long peace, however, made them ashamed.
 
 How they sighed, our fathers, when they saw on the wall brightly furbished, dried-up swords! Like those they thirsted for war. For a 191 sword thirsts to drink blood, and sparkles with desire.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
