I see and have seen worse things, and divers things so hideous, that I should neither like to speak of all matters, nor even keep silent about some of them: namely, men who lack everything, except that they have too much of one thing - men who are nothing more than a big eye, or a big mouth, or a big belly, or something else big, - reversed cripples, I call such men.
 
 And when I came out of my solitude, and for the first time passed over this bridge, then I could not trust my eyes, but looked again and again, and said at last: "That is an ear! An ear as big as a man!" I looked still more attentively - and actually there did move under the ear something that was pitiably small and poor and slim. And in truth this immense ear was perched on a small thin stalk - the stalk, however, was a man! If one used a magnifying glass one could even recognize an envious tiny face; also, that a bloated little soul was dangling from the stalk. The people told me, however, that the big ear was not only a man, but a great man, a genius. But I never believed in the people when they spoke of great men - and I hold to my belief that it was a reversed cripple, who had too little of everything, and too much of one thing.
 
 When Zarathustra had spoken thus to the hunchback, and to those of whom the hunchback was the mouthpiece and advocate, then did he turn to his disciples in profound dejection, and said: Truly, my friends, I walk among men as among the fragments and limbs of human beings!
 
 This is the terrible thing to my eye, that I find man broken up, and scattered about, as on a battle - and butcher-ground.
 
 And when my eye flies from the present to the bygone, it finds ever the same: fragments and limbs and fearful chances - but no men!
 
 The present and the bygone upon earth - ah! my friends - that is my most unbearable trouble; and I should not know how to live, if I were not a seer of what is to come.
 
 A seer, a purposer, a creator, a future itself, and a bridge to the future and Alas. also as it were a cripple on this bridge: all that is Zarathustra.
 
 And you also asked yourselves often: "Who is Zarathustra to us? What shall he be called by us?" And like me, did you give yourselves questions for answers.
 
 Is he a promiser? Or a fulfiller? A conqueror? Or an inheritor? A harvest? Or a ploughshare? A physician? Or a healed one?
 
 Is he a poet? Or a genuine one? An emancipator? Or a subjugator? A 112 good one?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
