Let your bestowing love and your knowledge be devoted to be the meaning of the earth! Thus do I pray and appeal to you.
 
 Let it not fly away from the earthly and beat against eternal walls with its wings! Ah, there has always been so much flown-away virtue!
 
 Lead, like me, the flown-away virtue back to the earth - yes, back to body and life: that it may give to the earth its meaning, a human meaning!
 
 A hundred times thus far has spirit as well as virtue flown away and blundered. Alas. in our body dwells still all this delusion and blundering: body and will has it there become.
 
 A hundred times thus far has spirit as well as virtue attempted and erred. Yes, an attempt has man been. Alas, much ignorance and error has become embodied in us!
 
 Not only the rationality of millennia - also their madness, breaks out in us. Dangerous is it to be an heir.
 
 Still fight we step by step with the giant Chance, and over all mankind has thus far ruled nonsense, the lack-of-sense.
 
 Let your spirit and your virtue be devoted to the sense of the earth, my brothers: let the value of everything be determined anew by you! Therefore shall you be fighters! Therefore shall you be creators!
 
 Intelligently does the body purify itself; attempting with intelligence it exalts itself; to the discerners all impulses sanctify themselves; to the exalted the soul becomes joyful.
 
 Physician, heal yourself: then will you also heal your patient. Let it be his best cure to see with his eyes him who makes himself whole.
 
 A thousand paths are there which have never yet been trodden; a thousand salubrities and hidden islands of life. Unexhausted and undiscovered is still man and man's world.
 
 Awake and listen, you lonesome ones! From the future come winds with stealthy pinions, and to fine ears good tidings are proclaimed.
 
 You lonesome ones of today, you seceding ones, you shall one day be a people: out of you who have chosen yourselves, shall a chosen people arise: - and out of it the overman.
 
 Truly, a place of healing shall the earth become! And already is a new odor diffused around it, a salvation-bringing odor - and a new hope!
 
 3.
 
 When Zarathustra had spoken these words, he paused, like one who had not said his last word; and long did he balance the staff doubtfully in his hand. At last he spoke thus - and his voice had changed: 65 I now go alone, my disciples!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
