To be sure, you say: "The delight in petty evils spars one many a great evil deed." But here one should not wish to be sparing.
 
 Like a boil is the evil deed: it itches and irritates and breaks forth - it speaks honorably.
 
 "Behold, I am disease," says the evil deed: that is its honorableness.
 
 But like infection is the petty thought: it creeps and hides, and wants to be nowhere - until the whole body is decayed and withered by the petty infection.
 
 To him however, who is possessed of a devil, I would whisper this word in the ear: "Better for you to rear up your devil! Even for you there is still a path to greatness!"Ah, my brothers! One knows a little too much about every one! And many a one becomes transparent to us, but still we can by no means penetrate him.
 
 It is difficult to live among men because silence is so difficult.
 
 And not to him who is offensive to us are we most unfair, but to him who does not concern us at all.
 
 If, however, you have a suffering friend, then be a resting-place for his suffering; like a hard bed, however, a camp-bed: thus will you serve him best.
 
 And if a friend does you wrong, then say: "I forgive you what you have done to me; that you have done it to yourself, however - how could I forgive that!" Thus speaks all great love: it surpasses even forgiveness and pity.
 
 One should hold fast one's heart; for when one lets it go, how quickly does one's head run away!
 
 Ah, where in the world have there been greater follies than with the pitiful? And what in the world has caused more suffering than the follies of the pitiful?
 
 Woe to all loving ones who have not an elevation which is above their pity!
 
 Thus spoke the devil to me, once on a time: "Even God has his hell: it is his love for man." And lately, did I hear him say these words: "God is dead: of his pity for man has God died."So be you warned against pity: from thence there yet comes to men a heavy cloud! Truly, I understand weather-signs!
 
 But attend also to this word: All great love is above all its pity: for it seeks - to create what is loved!
 
 73 "Myself do I offer to my love, and my neighbor as myself" - such is the language of all creators.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
