Creating ones were first of all peoples, and only in late times individuals; truly, the individual himself is still the latest creation.
 
 Peoples once hung over them tables of the good. Love which would rule and love which would obey, created for themselves such tables.
 
 Older is the pleasure in the herd than the pleasure in the ego: and as long as the good conscience is for the herd, the bad conscience only says: ego.
 
 Truly, the crafty ego, the loveless one, that seeks its advantage in the advantage of many - it is not the origin of the herd, but its ruin.
 
 Loving ones, was it always, and creating ones, that created good and bad. Fire of love glows in the names of all the virtues, and fire of wrath.
 
 Many lands saw Zarathustra, and many peoples: no greater power did Zarathustra find on earth than the creations of the loving ones - "good" and "bad" are they called.
 
 Truly, a prodigy is this power of praising and blaming. Tell me, you brothers, who will master it for me? Who will put a fetter upon the thousand necks of this animal?
 
 A thousand goals have there been thus far, for a thousand peoples have there been. Only the fetter for the thousand necks is still lacking; there is lacking the one goal. As yet humanity has not a goal.
 
 But pray tell me, my brothers, if the goal of humanity be still lacking, is there not also still lacking - humanity itself? Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 1, (16) NEIGHBOR-LOVE You crowd around your neighbor, and have fine words for it. But I say to you: your neighbor-love is your bad love of yourselves.
 
 You flee to your neighbor from yourselves, and would rather make a virtue thereof: but I fathom your "unselfishness." The you is older than the I; the you has been consecrated, but not yet the I: so man presses nigh to his neighbor.
 
 Do I advise you to neighbor-love? Rather do I advise you to neighborflight and to furthest love!
 
 Higher than love to your neighbor is love to the furthest and future 52 ones; higher still than love to men, is love to things and phantoms.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
