Honestly, a lot of things about ourselves are hard to deal with! Inside people, there are parts that are like oysters – weird, slippery, and tough to understand. So, we need a nice outer shell, something that looks good, to help hide those parts.

But you also have to learn how to have that shell, to look good on the outside, and to sometimes ignore what’s really inside.

Sometimes, though, that shell fools us. Many people have weak or sad shells, or way too much of one. Hidden inside, there’s often a lot of goodness and strength that nobody notices. The best things sometimes have no one to enjoy them!

Women know this well: a little difference in how someone looks can change everything.

People are hard to figure out, especially to themselves. Sometimes, our feelings trick us about who we really are. That’s because we take things too seriously.

Someone truly understands themselves when they say, “This is what’s good and bad about me.” That stops people who say, “What’s good for one is good for all,” or “Everything is perfect.” I don’t like those people who think everything is great all the time. I respect the picky ones who can say “yes” and “no” and know what they want.

Trying to accept everything without thinking is like acting like a pig. Always saying “yes” is something only donkeys and similar animals do! I like things that are bold and colorful, not plain and boring. If someone just tries to cover up their problems, it shows me they’re hiding something inside.

Some people fall in love with dead things or illusions, but I don’t like either of those – they don’t feel real to me.

Because I love real life.

I won’t stay where everyone is nasty and rude; I’d rather be around thieves and liars than where people are always spitting and being disgusting.

No one talks sweetly just to get gold.

I hate people who only flatter others to get something. The worst kind of person I found is the “parasite” – someone who won’t love but still lives off love.

I feel sorry for people who only have two options: to be wild animals or to try to control wild animals. I wouldn’t want to live among those people.

I also feel sorry for those who always have to wait – like toll collectors, traders, kings, and other people in charge. They don’t appeal to me at all.
