" The old man went back in, but returned shortly and offered Zarathustra bread and wine. "A bad country for the hungry," he said; "that is why I live here. Animals and men come to me, the hermit. But bid your companion eat and drink also, he is wearier than you are." Zarathustra replied: "My companion is dead; I should hardly be able to persuade him." "I don't care," said the old man peevishly; "Whoever knocks at my door must take what I offer him. Eat and be off!"Thereafter Zarathustra again went on for two hours, trusting the path and the light of the stars: for he was used to walking at night, and loved to look into the face of all that sleeps. When morning dawned, however, Zarathustra found himself in a thick forest, and he did not see a path anywhere. So he put the dead man in a hollow tree - for he wanted to protect him from the wolves - and he himself lay down on the ground and moss, his head beneath the tree. And soon he fell asleep, tired in body but with a tranquil soul.
 
 Prologue (9) 9 Zarathustra slept a long time and not only the rosy dawn passed over his face, but also the morning. At last, however, his eyes opened: amazed, he gazed into the forest and the stillness; amazed, he gazed into himself. Then he arose quickly, like a seafarer who all at once sees the land, and he rejoiced, for he saw a new truth. And he spoke thus to his heart: A light has dawned upon me: I need companions - living ones, not dead companions and corpses, which I carry with me wherever I wish.
 
 But I need living companions, who will follow me because they want to follow themselves - wherever I want. A light has dawned upon me.
 
 Not to the people is Zarathustra to speak, but to companions! Zarathustra shall not become a shephard and a sheepdog to the herd!
 
 To lure many from the herd - for that I have come. The people and the herd shall be angry with me: Zarathustra wants to be called a robber by the herdsmen.
 
 I say herdsmen, but they call themselves the good and just. I say herdsmen, but they call themselves the believers in the true faith.
 
 Behold the good and just! Whom do they hate most? The one who 21 breaks their tables of values, the breaker, the lawbreaker; he, however, is the creator.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
