There are actors without knowing it among them, and actors without intending it-, the genuine ones are always rare, especially the genuine actors.
 
 Of man there is little here: therefore do their women masculinise themselves. For only he who is man enough, will - save the woman in woman.
 
 And this hypocrisy found I worst among them, that even those who command feign the virtues of those who serve.
 
 "I serve, you serve, we serve" - so chants here even the hypocrisy of the rulers - and Alas. if the first lord be only the first servant!
 
 Ah, even upon their hypocrisy did my eyes' curiosity alight; and well did I divine all their fly - happiness, and their buzzing around sunny window-panes.
 
 So much kindness, so much weakness do I see. So much justice and pity, so much weakness.
 
 Round, fair, and considerate are they to one another, as grains of sand are round, fair, and considerate to grains of sand.
 
 Modestly to embrace a small happiness - that do they call "submission"!
 
 and at the same time they peer modestly after a new small happiness.
 
 In their hearts they want simply one thing most of all: that no one hurt them. Thus do they anticipate every one's wishes and do well to every one.
 
 That, however, is cowardice, though it be called "virtue."And when they chance to speak harshly, those small people, then do I hear therein only their hoarseness - every draught of air makes them hoarse.
 
 Shrewd indeed are they, their virtues have shrewd fingers. But they lack fists: their fingers do not know how to creep behind fists.
 
 Virtue for them is what makes modest and tame: therewith have they made the wolf a dog, and man himself man's best domestic animal.
 
 "We set our chair in the midst" - so says their smirking to me - "and as far from dying gladiators as from satisfied swine." That, however, is - mediocrity, though it be called moderation. 3.
 
 I pass through this people and let fall many words: but they know neither how to take nor how to retain them.
 
 They wonder why I came not to revile venery and vice; and truly, I came not to warn against pickpockets either!
 
 They wonder why I am not ready to abet and whet their wisdom: as if they had not yet enough of wiseacres, whose voices grate on my ear like 135 slate-pencils!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
