His friends praise the book but only 192 copies are sold.
 
 March-June: With help from Gast, Nietzsche goes to live in Venice.
 
 Gast reads to and takes diction from his bedridden friend.
 
 36 - February: The Dawn is completed.
 
 July: The Dawn is published. Nietzsche goes to Sils Maria, high in the Swiss Alps. The idea for Zarathustra occurs to him there.
 
 37- January-March: Material originally intended for The Dawn is developed into The Gay Science.
 
 He tries a typewriter, invented only 10 years earlier but it doesn't make his task of writing easier and he gives it up.
 
 March: Nietzsche boards a ship for Messina, which he likes but goes to Rome 4 weeks later.
 
 May: Nietzsche meets Lou Salome in Rome. She is perhaps the one woman in his life that he has strong feelings for. Lou is young and adventurous. She, Ree and Nietzsche talk and dream about living and studying together in Paris. Lou, years later, says Nietzsche twice proposed marriage to her, but recent biographers doubt it was true.[5] (1884) Ree too has feelings for Lou and together with Nietzsche's jealous, prudish sister Elizabeth, a real emotional mess is starting to develop.
 
 August: The Gay Science is published. Lou and Elizabeth have a loud bitter argument. Nietzsche is unaware of this. Lou gives him a beautiful poem she wrote and he likes it so much he puts it to music and later publishes it.
 
 September: Plans are set for the "trinity" to go to Paris but at the last minute everything falls apart. Nietzsche's mother, influenced by Elizabeth, is violently opposed to Lou. Nietzsche learns of the hate between Lou and Elizabeth.
 
 October: There is a last meeting of the "trinity". By November Nietzsche is definitely not going to Paris.
 
 38 - November: Nietzsche spends a difficult month in Rapallo alone.
 
 Through letters, relations between him and Ree and Lou worsen. He is so upset with his mother and sister he won't even write to them. At Christmas to his friend Overbeck he writes, "This last bite of life was the hardest I've ever chewed… " January: Nietzsche swings between highs and lows. When his spirits are high, in only ten days, he completes a clean copy of the first part of Zarathustra.
 
 February: Wagner dies. In a letter to a friend he says, "It was hard, very hard, for six years to have to be the opponent of someone one has 260 honored and loved as I have loved Wagner" Late February to May: Nietzsche is in a cheerful frame of mind, his health improving.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
