And even you will I whip with my spite!
 
 Like a cry and an huzza will I traverse wide seas, till I find the Happy Isles where my friends sojourn;And my enemies among them! How I now love everyone to whom I may but speak! Even my enemies pertain to my bliss.
 
 And when I want to mount my wildest horse, then does my spear always help me up best: it is my foot's ever ready servant:The spear which I hurl at my enemies! How grateful am I to my enemies that I may at last hurl it!
 
 Too great has been the tension of my cloud: between laughters of lightnings will I cast hail-showers into the depths.
 
 Violently will my breast then heave; violently will it blow its storm over the mountains: thus comes its assuagement.
 
 Truly, like a storm comes my happiness, and my freedom! But my enemies shall think that the evil one roars over their heads.
 
 Yes, you also, my friends, will be alarmed by my wild wisdom; and perhaps you will flee from it, along with my enemies.
 
 Ah, that I knew how to lure you back with shepherds' flutes! Ah, that my lioness wisdom would learn to roar softly! And much have we already learned with one another!
 
 My wild wisdom became pregnant on the lonesome mountains; on the rough stones did she bear the youngest of her young.
 
 Now runs she foolishly in the arid wilderness, and seeks and seeks the soft sward - my old, wild wisdom!
 
 On the soft sward of your hearts, my friends! - on your love, would she rather couch her dearest one! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (2) IN THE HAPPY ISLES THE figs fall from the trees, they are good and sweet; and in falling the red skins of them break. A north wind am I to ripe figs.
 
 Thus, like figs, do these doctrines fall for you, my friends: imbibe now their juice and their sweet substance! It is autumn all around, and clear sky, and afternoon.
 
 Behold, what fullness is around us! And out of the midst of superabundance, it is delightful to look out upon distant seas.
 
 69 Once did people say God, when they looked out upon distant seas; now, however, have I taught you to say, overman.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
