And would you hear this likewise? To him who seeks to be just from the heart, even the lie becomes philanthropy.
 
 But how could I be just from the heart! How can I give everyone his own! Let this be enough for me: I give to everyone my own.
 
 Finally, my brothers, guard against doing wrong to any anchorite.
 
 How could an hermit forget! How could he requite!
 
 Like a deep well is an anchorite. Easy is it to throw in a stone: if it should sink to the bottom, however, tell me, who will bring it out again?
 
 Guard against injuring the anchorite! If you have done so, however, well then, kill him also! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 1, (20) CHILD AND MARRIAGE I have a question for you alone, my brother: like a sounding-lead, cast I this question into your soul, that I may know its depth.
 
 You are young, and desire child and marriage. But I ask you: are you a man entitled to desire a child?
 
 Are you the victorious one, the self-conqueror, the ruler of your passions, the master of your virtues? Thus do I ask you.
 
 Or does the animal speak in your wish, and necessity? Or isolation? Or discord in you?
 
 I would have your victory and freedom long for a child. Living monuments shall you build to your victory and emancipation.
 
 Beyond yourself shall you build. But first of all must you be built yourself, rectangular in body and soul.
 
 Not only onward shall you propagate yourself, but upward! For that purpose may the garden of marriage help you!
 
 A higher body shall you create, a first movement, a spontaneously rolling wheel - a creating one shall you create.
 
 Marriage: so call I the will of the twain to create the one that is more than those who created it. The reverence for one another, as those exercising such a will, call I marriage.
 
 Let this be the significance and the truth of your marriage. But that which the many-too-many call marriage, those superfluous ones - ah, what shall I call it?
 
 59 Ah, the poverty of soul in the twain!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
