25.
 
 He who has grown wise concerning old origins, behold, he will at last seek after the fountains of the future and new origins.O my brothers, not long will it be until new peoples shall arise and new fountains shall rush down into new depths.
 
 For the earthquake - it chokes up many wells, it causes much languishing: but it brings also to light inner powers and secrets.
 
 The earthquake discloses new fountains. In the earthquake of old peoples new fountains burst forth.
 
 And whoever calls out: "Behold, here is a well for many thirsty ones, one heart for many longing ones, one will for many instruments": around him collects a people, that is to say, many attempting ones.
 
 Who can command, who must obey - that is there attempted! Ah, with what long seeking and solving and failing and learning and re-attempting!
 
 Human society: it is an attempt - so I teach - a long seeking: it seeks however the ruler!-An attempt, my brothers! And no "contract"! Destroy, I pray you, destroy that word of the soft-hearted and half-and-half!
 
 26.
 
 O my brothers! With whom lies the greatest danger to the whole human future? Is it not with the good and just?-As those who say and feel in their hearts: "We already know what is good and just, we possess it also; woe to those who still seek thereafter!
 
 And whatever harm the wicked may do, the harm of the good is the most harmful harm!
 
 And whatever harm the world-maligners may do, the harm of the good is the most harmful harm!
 
 O my brothers, into the hearts of the good and just looked someone once on a time, who said: "They are the Pharisees." But people did not understand him.
 
 The good and just themselves were not free to understand him; their spirit was imprisoned in their good conscience. The stupidity of the good is unfathomably wise.
 
 It is the truth, however, that the good must be Pharisees - they have no choice!
 
 The good must crucify him who devises his own virtue! That is the truth!
 
 The second one, however, who discovered their country - the country, 167 heart and soul of the good and just, - it was he who asked: "Whom do they hate most?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
