O my brothers, are you also evil enough for this truth?
 
 The daring venture, the prolonged distrust, the cruel No, the tedium, the cutting-into-the-quick - how seldom do these come together! Out of such seed, however - is truth produced!
 
 Beside the bad conscience has thus far grown all knowledge! Break up, break up, you discerning ones, the old tables!
 
 8.
 
 When the water has planks, when gangways and railings overspan the stream, truly, he is not believed who then says: "All is in flux." But even the simpletons contradict him. "What?" say the simpletons, "all in flux? Planks and railings are still over the stream!
 
 "Over the stream all is stable, all the values of things, the bridges and bearings, all 'good' and 'evil': these are all stable!"Comes, however, the hard winter, the stream-tamer, then learn even the wittiest distrust, and truly, not only the simpletons then say: "Should not everything - stand still?" "Fundamentally stands everything still" - that is an appropriate winter doctrine, good cheer for an unproductive period, a great comfort for winter-sleepers and fireside-loungers.
 
 "Fundamentally stands everything still"-: but contrary to this, preaches the thawing wind!
 
 The thawing wind, a bullock, which is no ploughing bullock - a furious bullock, a destroyer, which with angry horns breaks the ice! The ice however - - breaks gangways!
 
 O my brothers, is not everything at present in flux? Have not all railings and gangways fallen into the water? Who would still hold on to "good" and "evil"?
 
 "Woe to us! Hail to us! The thawing wind blows!" - Thus preach, my brothers, through all the streets!
 
 9.
 
 There is an old illusion - it is called good and evil. Around soothsayers and astrologers has thus far revolved the orbit of this illusion.
 
 Once did one believe in soothsayers and astrologers; and therefore did one believe, "Everything is fate: you shall, for you must!" Then again did one distrust all soothsayers and astrologers; and therefore did one believe, "Everything is freedom: you can, for you will!" O my brothers, concerning the stars and the future there has thus far been only illusion, and not knowledge; and therefore concerning good and evil there has thus far been only illusion and not knowledge!
 
 159 10.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
