Alas, was this perhaps the higher man whose cry I heard?
 
 I love the great despisers. Man is something that has to be surpassed." Part 4, (8) THE VOLUNTARY BEGGAR WHEN Zarathustra had left the ugliest man, he was chilled and felt lonesome: for much coldness and lonesomeness came over his spirit, so that even his limbs became colder thereby. When, however, he wandered on and on, uphill and down, at times past green meadows, though also sometimes over wild stony couches where formerly perhaps an impatient brook had made its bed, then he turned all at once warmer and heartier again.
 
 "What has happened to me?" he asked himself, "something warm and living quickens me; it must be in the neighbourhood.
 
 Already am I less alone; unconscious companions and brothers rove around me; their warm breath touches my soul." When, however, he spied about and sought for the comforters of his lonesomeness, behold, there were cows there standing together on an eminence, whose proximity and smell had warmed his heart. The cows, however, seemed to listen eagerly to a speaker, and took no heed of him who approached. When, however, Zarathustra was quite close to them, then did he hear plainly that a human voice spoke in the midst of the cows, and apparently all of them had turned their heads towards the speaker.
 
 Then ran Zarathustra up speedily and drove the animals aside; for he feared that someone had here met with harm, which the pity of the cows would hardly be able to relieve. But in this he was deceived; for behold, there sat a man on the ground who seemed to be persuading the animals to have no fear of him, a peaceable man and Preacher-on-the-Mount, out of whose eyes kindness itself preached. "What do you seek here?" called out Zarathustra in astonishment.
 
 "What do I here seek?" answered he: "the same that you seek, you mischief-maker; that is to say, happiness upon earth.
 
 To that end, however, I would rather learn of these cows. For I tell you 208 that I have already talked half a morning to them, and just now were they about to give me their answer.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
