He renews writing to his mother and sister.
 
 August: He asks to be able to hold lectures at the University of Leipzig but is refused because of his views on Christianity.
 
 June to September: He goes to Sils-Maria in the Alps. Writes the second part of Zarathustra.
 
 October: Elizabeth announces her engagement to the anti-Semite Bernhard Forster.
 
 39 He breaks again with his sister. In a letter to Overbeck "The cursed anti-Semitism… is the cause of a radical break between me and my sister… "[5] 1884 He goes to Genoa. His health declines and he moves to Nice in search of good weather.
 
 January: Zarathustra Book 2 is published. Like Book 1, it sells very poorly.
 
 Acquaintance with Resa von Schirnhofer who says, "Nietzsche once gave me the good advice to keep paper and pencil on hand at night, as he himself did, since at night we are often visited by rare thoughts, which we should record immediately… for by morning we can usually not find them again … "[6] (p.148) 40 June to mid-September: He meets Louise Röder-Wiederhold who transcribes a number of aphorisms by his dictation. Most of these will be used in Beyond Good and Evil. In a letter, Nietzsche wonders if Louise can long stand his "anti-democratic" ideas and his aphorisms about women.[5] (1885) Difficulties start with his anti-Semitic publisher, Schmeitzner who refuses to publish Zarathustra 4. In a letter to Overbeck: "my writings lie completely buried and unexhumeable in this anti-Semitic hole (meaning Schmeitzner)"[5](1885) 41 - November: Nietzsche is delighted to encounter an astronomer, a "snow white old man," making observations who recites passages from Human, All Too Human.[5] (1885) June: He begins Beyond Good and Evil.
 
 August: He spends time with Meta von Salis, Emily Flynn, Helen Zimmern.
 
 42 - November: Accidentally "discovers" Dostoevsky. "… my joy was extraordinary: I would have to go back to my acquaintance with Stendhal's Rouge et Noir to recall the same degree of delight"[5](1886) January: He completes Beyond Good and Evil. August: The book is published.
 
 261 October: Nietzsche writes the fifth book of The Gay Science.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
