Ten times must you laugh during the day, and be cheerful; otherwise your stomach, the father of affliction and gloom, will disturb you in the night.
 
 Few people know it, but one must have all the virtues in order to sleep well. Shall I bear false witness? Shall I commit adultery?
 
 Shall I crave for my neighbour's maid? All that would bother a good sleep.
 
 And even if one has all the virtues, there is still one thing needful: to send the virtues themselves to sleep at the right time. That they may not quarrel with one another, the pretty little women! And not quarrel about you, you unhappy man!
 
 Peace with God and your neighbor: so desires good sleep. And peace also with your neighbour's devil! Otherwise it will haunt you in the night.
 
 Honor to the authorities, and obedience, and also to the crooked authorities! So desires good sleep. How can I help it, if power likes to walk on crooked legs?
 
 He who leads his sheep to the greenest pasture, shall always be for me the best shepherd: that goes well with good sleep.
 
 I do not desire many honors, nor great treasures: they excite the spleen.
 
 But one sleeps badly without a good name and a little treasure.
 
 The company of a few is more welcome to me than evil company: but they must come and go at the right time. That goes well with good sleep.
 
 Also, the poor in spirit greatly please me: they promote sleep. Blessed are they, especially if one always tell them that they are right.
 
 Thus passes the day of the virtuous. When night comes, then I take good care not to summon sleep. It dislikes to be summoned - sleep, the lord of the virtues!
 
 Instead I think of what I have done and thought during the day. Ruminating, patient as a cow, I ask myself: What were your ten overcomings?
 
 And what were the ten reconciliations, and the ten truths, and the ten laughters with which my heart enjoyed itself?
 
 Thus pondering, while being cradled and rocked by forty thoughts, it overtakes me all at once - sleep, the unsummoned, the lord of the virtues.
 
 Sleep taps on my eye, and it turns heavy. Sleep touches my mouth, and it remains open.
 
 Truly, on soft soles does it come to me, the dearest of thieves, and 27 steals from me my thoughts: stupid do I then stand, like this academic chair.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
