And at last asks their weariness: "Why did we ever go on the way? All is indifferent!" To them sounds it pleasant to have preached in their ears: "Nothing is worthwhile! you shall not will!" That, however, is a sermon for slavery.
 
 O my brothers, a fresh blustering wind comes Zarathustra to all wayweary ones; many noses will he yet make sneeze!
 
 Even through walls blows my free breath, and into prisons and imprisoned spirits!
 
 Willing emancipates: for willing is creating: so do I teach. And only for creating shall you learn!
 
 And also the learning shall you learn only from me, the learning well! He who has ears let him hear!
 
 17.
 
 There stands the boat - there goes it over, perhaps into vast nothingness - but who wills to enter into this "Perhaps"?
 
 None of you want to enter into the death-boat! How should you then be world-weary ones!
 
 World-weary ones! And have not even withdrawn from the earth!
 
 Eager did I ever find you for the earth, amorous still of your own earthweariness!
 
 Not in vain does your lip hang down: - a small worldly wish still sits thereon! And in your eye - floats there not a cloudlet of unforgotten earthly bliss?
 
 There are on the earth many good inventions, some useful, some pleasant: for their sake is the earth to be loved.
 
 And many such good inventions are there, that they are like woman's breasts: useful at the same time, and pleasant.
 
 You world-weary ones, however! you earth-idlers! You, shall one beat with stripes! With stripes shall one again make you sprightly limbs.
 
 For if you be not invalids, or decrepit creatures, of whom the earth is weary, then are you sly sloths, or dainty, sneaking pleasure-cats. And if you will not again run gaily, then shall you - pass away!
 
 To the incurable shall one not seek to be a physician: thus teaches Zarathustra: - so shall you pass away!
 
 But more courage is needed to make an end than to make a new verse: that do all physicians and poets know well. 18.
 
 O my brothers, there are tables which weariness framed, and tables which slothfulness framed, corrupt slothfulness: although they speak 163 similarly, they want to be heard differently.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
