There is more reason, sanity and intelligence in your body than in your best wisdom. And who knows why your body requires precisely your best wisdom?
 
 Your subconscious self laughs at your "I", and its bold leaps. "What are these leaps and flights of thought to me?" it says to itself. "A detour to my purpose. I am the leading-string of the ego, and the prompter of its thoughts." The subconscious self says to the "I": "Feel pain here!" Then the "I" suffers, and thinks how it might end its suffering - and that is why it is made to think.
 
 The subconscious self says to the "I": "Feel desire or pleasure or joy here!" Then the "I" is happy, and thinks how it might often be happy again - and that is why it is made to think.
 
 I want to speak to the despisers of the body. It is their respect and esteem that produces their despising. What is it that created respecting and esteeming and despising and worth and will?
 
 The creative subconscious self created for itself respecting and esteeming and despising, it created for itself joy and sorrow and pain. The creative body created spirit as a hand of its will.
 
 Even in your folly and despising you each serve your self, you despisers of the body. I tell you, your very self wants to die, and turns away from life.
 
 No longer can your subconscious self do that which it desires most: to create beyond itself. That is what it desires most; that is all its fervour.
 
 But it is now too late to do so: so your self wishes to go under, you despisers of the body.
 
 Your subconscious self wants to go under, to perish; and that is why you have you become despisers of the body. For you are no longer able to create beyond yourselves.
 
 And therefore are you now angry with life and with the earth. An unconscious envy speaks out of the squinting glance of your contempt.
 
 I will not follow you, you despisers of the body! For me you are not a bridge to the overman! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 32 Part 1, (5) JOYS AND PASSIONS My brother, when you have a virtue, and it is your own virtue, you have it in common with no one.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
