When he entered the forest, however, there suddenly stood before him an old man, who had left his holy hut to seek roots in the forest. And thus spoke the old man to Zarathustra: "No stranger to me is this wanderer: many years ago he passed by.
 
 Zarathustra he was called, but he has changed.
 
 Then you carried your ashes up to the mountains: will you now carry your fire into the valleys? Do you not fear the arsonist's punishment?
 
 Yes, I recognize Zarathustra. Pure are his eyes, and no loathing lurks around his mouth. Does he not move like a dancer?
 
 Transformed is Zarathustra; Zarathustra has become a child; an awakened one is Zarathustra: what will you do in the land of the sleepers?
 
 As in the sea have you lived in solitude, and it has supported you.
 
 Alas, will you now go ashore? Alas, will you again haul your body by yourself?" Zarathustra answered: "I love mankind." "Why," said the saint, "did I go into the forest and the desert? Was it not because I loved men far too well?
 
 Now I love God; men I do not love. Man is a thing too imperfect for me. Love of man would be fatal to me." Zarathustra answered: "Did I talk of love? I am bringing a gift to men." "Give them nothing," said the saint. "Instead, take part of their load, and carry it with them - that will be most agreeable to them: if only it is agreeable to you!
 
 If, however, you want to give something to them, give them no more than alms, and let them also beg for it!" "No," replied Zarathustra, "I give no alms. I am not poor enough for that." The saint laughed at Zarathustra, and spoke thus: "Then see to it that they accept your treasures! They are distrustful of hermits, and do not believe that we come with gifts.
 
 Our footsteps sound too lonely through the streets. And at night, when they are in bed and hear a man walking nearby long before sunrise, they may ask themselves: Where is this thief going?
 
 Do not go to men, but stay in the forest! Go rather to the animals! Why not be like me - a bear among bears, a bird among birds?" "And what does the saint do in the forest?" asked Zarathustra.
 
 The saint answered: "I make songs and sing them; and in making songs 12 I laugh and weep and growl and hum: thus do I praise God.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
