It’s time for people to plant the seed of their biggest hope.

The ground is still good enough for it. But one day, that ground will become poor and tired, and no tall tree will be able to grow there anymore.

Sadly, there will come a time when people won’t aim their hopes beyond themselves – and their bows will stop making that buzzing sound!

I tell you: you need some chaos inside you to create something amazing like a shining star. I tell you: you still have that chaos inside.

But sadly, there will come a time when people can’t create any stars at all. There will come a time of the worst kind of person, who can’t even hate themselves.

Look! I show you the last person.

“What is love? What is creating? What is wanting? What is a star?” the last person asks and blinks.

The world has become small, and the last person jumps around on it, making everything small too. Their kind is as hard to get rid of as fleas; the last person lives the longest.

“We have made happiness,” say the last people, and they blink.

They have left the places where life was hard because everyone needs comfort. They still like being close to others because they need warmth.

Getting sick or being suspicious is seen as bad; everyone plays it safe. It’s stupid to trip over problems or people!

A little bit of trouble now and then makes for nice dreams. And too much trouble at the end leads to a peaceful death.

People still work because work is fun, but they are careful not to let it bother them too much.

Nobody gets really rich or really poor; both are too much trouble. Who wants to be the boss? Who wants to be the follower? Both are too much trouble.

No leaders and no followers! Everyone wants the same things; everyone is the same. Anyone who feels different chooses to go crazy.

“Long ago, everyone was crazy,” say the smartest people, and they blink.

They are smart and know everything that has happened, so they never stop making fun. People still argue, but they quickly make up – or it might upset their stomachs.

They have small pleasures during the day and at night, but they care about staying healthy.

“We have made happiness,” say the last people, and they blink.

And here the first speech of Zarathustra ended, which is also called “The Prologue,” because the crowd started shouting and cheering.
