Did my wisdom perhaps speak secretly to it, my laughing, wide-awake day-wisdom, which mocks at all "infinite worlds"? For it says: "Where force is, there becomes number the master: it has more force." How confidently did my dream contemplate this finite world, not newfangledly, not old-fangledly, not timidly, not entreatingly:-As if a big round apple presented itself to my hand, a ripe golden apple, with a coolly-soft, velvety skin: - thus did the world present itself to me:-As if a tree nodded to me, a broad-branched, strong-willed tree, curved as a recline and a foot-stool for weary travellers: thus did the world stand on my promontory:-As if delicate hands carried a casket towards me - a casket open for the delectation of modest adoring eyes: thus did the world present itself before me today:-Not riddle enough to scare human love from it, not solution enough to put to sleep human wisdom: - a humanly good thing was the world to me to-day, of which such bad things are said!
 
 How I thank my morning-dream that I thus at today's dawn, weighed the world! As a humanly good thing did it come to me, this dream and heart-comforter!
 
 And that I may do the like by day, and imitate and copy its best, now will I put the three worst things on the scales, and weigh them humanly well.He who taught to bless taught also to curse: what are the three best cursed things in the world? These will I put on the scales.
 
 Voluptuousness, passion for power, and selfishness: these three things have thus far been best cursed, and have been in worst and falsest repute - these three things will I weigh humanly well.
 
 Well! Here is my promontory, and there is the sea - it rolls hither to me, shaggily and fawningly, the old, faithful, hundred-headed dog-monster that I love!Well! Here will I hold the scales over the weltering sea: and also a witness do I choose to look on - you, the anchorite-tree, you, the strongodoured, broad-arched tree that I love!On what bridge goes the now to the hereafter? By what constraint does the high stoop to the low? And what enjoins even the highest still - to grow upwards?Now stand the scales poised and at rest: three heavy questions have I thrown in; three heavy answers carries the other scale.
 
 149 2.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
