Zarathustra! Read my riddle! Say, say! What is the revenge on the witness?
 
 I entice you back; here is smooth ice! See to it, see to it, that your pride does not here break its legs!
 
 You think yourself wise, you proud Zarathustra! Read then the riddle, you hard nut-cracker, - the riddle that I am! Say then: who am I!" -When however Zarathustra had heard these words, - what think you then took place in his soul? Pity overcame him; and he sank down all at once, like an oak that has long withstood many tree-fellers, - heavily, suddenly, to the terror even of those who meant to fell it. But immediately he got up again from the ground, and his countenance became stern.
 
 "I know you well," said he, with a brazen voice, "you are the murderer of God! Let me go.
 
 You could not endure him who beheld you, - who ever beheld you through and through, you ugliest man. you took revenge on this witness!" Thus spoke Zarathustra and was about to go; but the nondescript grasped at a corner of his garment and began anew to gurgle and seek for words. "Stay," said he at last-"Stay! Do not pass by! I have divined what axe it was that struck you to the ground: hail to you, O Zarathustra, that you are again upon your feet!
 
 You have divined, I know it well, how the man feels who killed him, the murderer of God. Stay! Sit down here beside me; it is not to no purpose.
 
 To whom would I go but to you? Stay, sit down! Do not however look at me! Honour thus - my ugliness!
 
 They persecute me: now are you my last refuge. Not with their hatred, not with their bailiffs; - Oh, such persecution would I mock at, and be proud and cheerful!
 
 has not all success thus far been with the well-persecuted ones? And he who persecutes well learns readily to be obsequent - when once he is put behind! But it is their pity-Their pity is it from which I flee away and flee to you. O Zarathustra, protect me, you, my last refuge, you sole one who divined me: -you have divined how the man feels who killed him. Stay! And if you will go, you impatient one, go not the way that I came. That way is bad.
 
 205 Are you angry with me because I have already racked language too long?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
