In the true man there is a child hidden: it wants to play. Up then, you women, and discover the child in man!
 
 A plaything let woman be, pure and fine like the precious stone, illumined with the virtues of a world not yet come.
 
 Let the beam of a star shine in your love! Let your hope say: "May I bear the overman!" In your love let there be valour! With your love shall you assail him who inspires you with fear!
 
 In your love be your honor! Little does woman understand otherwise about honor. But let this be your honor: always to love more than you are loved, and never be the second.
 
 Let man fear woman when she loves: then makes she every sacrifice, and everything else she regards as worthless.
 
 Let man fear woman when she hats: for man in his innermost soul is merely evil; woman, however, is mean.
 
 Whom hats woman most? - Thus spoke the iron to the loadstone: "I hate you most, because you attract, but are too weak to draw to you." The happiness of man is, "I will." The happiness of woman is, "He will." "Behold. "Behold. now has the world become perfect!" - thus thinks every woman when she obeys with all her love.
 
 Obey, must the woman, and find a depth for her surface. Surface is woman's soul, a mobile, stormy film on shallow water.
 
 Man's soul, however, is deep, its current gushes in subterranean caverns: woman surmises its force, but comprehends it not.Then answered me the old woman: "Many fine things has Zarathustra said, especially for those who are young enough for them.
 
 Strange! Zarathustra knows little about woman, and yet he is right about them! does this happen, because with women nothing is impossible?
 
 And now accept a little truth by way of thanks! I am old enough for it!
 
 Swaddle it up and hold its mouth: otherwise it will scream too loudly, the little truth." "Give me, woman, your little truth!" said I. And thus spoke the old woman: "you go to women? Do not forget your whip!" Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 57 Part 1, (19) THE BITE OF THE ADDER One day had Zarathustra fallen asleep under a fig-tree, owing to the heat, with his arm over his face.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
