Ah, fate and sea! To you must I now go down!
 
 Before my highest mountain do I stand, and before my longest wandering: therefore must I first go deeper down than I ever ascended: -Deeper down into pain than I ever ascended, even into its darkest flood! So wills my fate. Well! I am ready.
 
 Whence come the highest mountains? so did I once ask. Then did I learn that they come out of the sea.
 
 That testimony is inscribed on their stones, and on the walls of their summits. Out of the deepest must the highest come to its height. Thus spoke Zarathustra on the ridge of the mountain where it was cold: when, however, he came into the vicinity of the sea, and at last stood alone among the cliffs, then had he become weary on his way, and more eager than ever before.
 
 Everything as yet sleeps, said he; even the sea sleeps. Drowsily and strangely does its eye gaze upon me.
 
 But it breaths warmly - I feel it. And I feel also that it dreams. It tosses about dreamily on hard pillows.
 
 Hark! Hark! How it groans with evil recollections! Or evil expectations?
 
 Ah, I am sad along with you, you dusky monster, and angry with myself even for your sake.
 
 Ah, that my hand has not strength enough! Gladly, indeed, would I free you from evil dreams! And while Zarathustra thus spoke, he laughed at himself with melancholy and bitterness. What! Zarathustra, said he, will you even sing consolation to the sea?
 
 Ah, you amiable fool, Zarathustra, you too-blindly confiding one! But thus have you ever been: ever have you approached confidently all that is terrible.
 
 Every monster would you caress. A whiff of warm breath, a little soft tuft on its paw: - and immediately were you ready to love and lure it.
 
 Love is the danger of the lonesomest one, love to anything, if it only live! Laughable, truly, is my folly and my modesty in love! Thus spoke Zarathustra, and laughed thereby a second time. Then, however, he thought of his abandoned friends - and as if he had done them a wrong with his thoughts, he upbraided himself because of his thoughts. And forthwith it came to pass that the laugher wept - with anger and longing wept Zarathustra bitterly.
 
 123 Part 3, (2) THE VISION AND THE ENIGMA 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
