Voluptuousness: to all hair-shirted despisers of the body, a sting and stake; and, cursed as "the world," by all the believers in an afterworld: for it mocks and befools all erring, misinferring teachers.
 
 Voluptuousness: to the rabble, the slow fire at which it is burnt; to all wormy wood, to all stinking rags, the prepared heat and stew furnace.
 
 Voluptuousness: to free hearts, a thing innocent and free, the gardenhappiness of the earth, all the future's thanks-overflow to the present.
 
 Voluptuousness: only to the withered a sweet poison; to the lionwilled, however, the great cordial, and the reverently saved wine of wines.
 
 Voluptuousness: the great symbolic happiness of a higher happiness and highest hope. For to many is marriage promised, and more than marriage,-To many that are more unknown to each other than man and woman: - and who has fully understood how unknown to each other are man and woman!
 
 Voluptuousness: - but I will have hedges around my thoughts, and even around my words, lest swine and libertine should break into my gardens!Passion for power: the glowing scourge of the hardest of the hearthard; the cruel torture reserved for the cruellest themselves; the gloomy flame of living pyres.
 
 Passion for power: the wicked gadfly which is mounted on the vainest peoples; the scorner of all uncertain virtue; which rids on every horse and on every pride.
 
 Passion for power: the earthquake which breaks and upbreaks all that is rotten and hollow; the rolling, rumbling, punitive demolisher of whited sepulchres; the flashing interrogative-sign beside premature answers.
 
 Passion for power: before whose glance man creeps and crouches and drudges, and becomes lower than the serpent and the swine: - until at last great contempt cries out of him-, Passion for power: the terrible teacher of great contempt, which preaches to their face to cities and empires: "Away with you!" - until a voice cries out of themselves: "Away with me!" Passion for power: which, however, mounts alluringly even to the pure and lonesome, and up to self-satisfied elevations, glowing like a love that paint Part purple felicities alluringly on earthly heavens.
 
 Passion for power: but who would call it passion, when the height 150 longs to stoop for power!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
