You have mounted, however, on horseback? you now ride briskly up to your goal? Well, my friend! But your lame foot is also with you on horseback!
 
 When you reach your goal, when you alight from your horse: precisely on your height, you higher man, - then will you stumble!
 
 11.
 
 You creating ones, you higher men! One is only pregnant with one's own child.
 
 Do not let yourselves be imposed upon or put upon! Who then is your neighbour? Even if you act "for your neighbour" - you still do not create for him!
 
 Unlearn, I pray you, this "for," you creating ones: your very virtue wishes you to have naught to do with "for" and "on account of" and "because." Against these false little words shall you stop your ears.
 
 "For one's neighbour," is the virtue only of the petty people: there it is said "like and like," and "hand washes hand": - they have neither the right nor the power for your self-seeking!
 
 In your self-seeking, you creating ones, there is the foresight and foreseeing of the pregnant! What no one's eye has yet seen, namely, the fruit - this, shelters and saves and nourishes your entire love.
 
 Where your entire love is, namely, with your child, there is also your entire virtue! Your work, your will is your "neighbour": let no false values impose upon you!
 
 12.
 
 You creating ones, you higher men! Whoever has to give birth is sick; whoever has given birth, however, is unclean.
 
 Ask women: one gives birth, not because it gives pleasure. The pain makes hens and poets cackle.
 
 You creating ones, in you there is much uncleanliness. That is because you have had to be mothers.
 
 A new child: oh, how much new filth has also come into the world! Go apart! He who has given birth shall wash his soul!
 
 13.
 
 Be not virtuous beyond your powers! And seek nothing from yourselves opposed to probability!
 
 Walk in the footsteps in which your fathers' virtue has already walked!
 
 How would you rise high, if your fathers' will should not rise with you?
 
 He, however, who would be a firstling, let him take care lest he also become a lastling! And where the vices of your fathers are, there should 226 you not set up as saints!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
