The hour-hand moved on, the timepiece of my life drew breath - never did I hear such stillness around me, so that my heart was terrified.
 
 Then was there spoken to me without voice: "you know it, Zarathustra?"And I cried in terror at this whispering, and the blood left my face: but I was silent.
 
 Then was there once more spoken to me without voice: "you know it, Zarathustra, but you do not speak it!"And at last I answered, like one defiant: "Yes, I know it, but I will not speak it!" Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "you will not, Zarathustra? Is this true? Conceal yourself not behind your defiance!"And I wept and trembled like a child, and said: "Ah, I would indeed, but how can I do it! Exempt me only from this! It is beyond my power!" Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "What matter about yourself, Zarathustra! Speak your word, and succumb!" And I answered: "Ah, is it my word? Who am I? I await the worthier one; I am not worthy even to succumb by it." Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "What matter about yourself? you are not yet humble enough for me. Humility has the hardest skin."And I answered: "What has not the skin of my humility endured! At the foot of my height do I dwell: how high are my summits, no one has yet told me. But well do I know my valleys." Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "O Zarathustra, he who has to remove mountains removes also valleys and plains."And I answered: "As yet has my word not removed mountains, and what I have spoken has not reached man. I went, indeed, to men, but not yet have I attained to them." Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "What know you thereof! The dew falls on the grass when the night is most silent."And I answered: "They mocked me when I found and walked in my own path; and certainly did my feet then tremble.
 
 And thus did they speak to me: you forgot the path before, now do you also forget how to walk!" Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "What matter about their mockery! you are one who have unlearned to obey: now shall you command!
 
 Know you not who is most needed by all? He who commands great 118 things.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
