With the eye of the thief it looks upon all that is lustrous; with the craving of hunger it measures him who has abundance; and ever does it prowl round the tables of bestowers.
 
 Sickness speaks in such craving, and invisible degeneration; of a sickly body, speaks the larcenous craving of this selfishness.
 
 Tell me, my brother, what do we think bad, and worst of all? Is it not degeneration? - And we always suspect degeneration when the bestowing soul is lacking.
 
 Upward goes our course from genera on to super-genera. But a horror to us is the degenerating sense, which says: "All for myself." Upward soars our sense: thus is it a simile of our body, a simile of an elevation. Such similes of elevations are the names of the virtues.
 
 Thus goes the body through history, a becomer and fighter. And the spirit - what is it to the body? Its fights' and victories' herald, its companion and echo.
 
 Similes, are all names of good and evil; they do not speak out, they only hint. A fool who seeks knowledge from them!
 
 Give heed, my brothers, to every hour when your spirit would speak in similes: there is the origin of your virtue.
 
 Elevated is then your body, and raised up; with its delight, enraptures it the spirit; so that it becomes creator, and valuer, and lover, and everything's benefactor.
 
 When your heart overflows broad and full like the river, a blessing and a danger to the lowlanders: there is the origin of your virtue.
 
 When you are exalted above praise and blame, and your will would command all things, as a loving one's will: there is the origin of your virtue.
 
 When you despise pleasant things, and the effeminate couch, and cannot couch far enough from the effeminate: there is the origin of your virtue.
 
 When you are willers of one will, and when that change of every need is needful to you: there is the origin of your virtue.
 
 Truly, a new good and evil is it! Truly, a new deep murmuring, and the voice of a new fountain!
 
 Power is it, this new virtue; a ruling thought is it, and around it a subtle soul: a golden sun, with the serpent of knowledge around it.
 
 2.
 
 Here paused Zarathustra awhile, and looked lovingly on his disciples.
 
 Then he continued to speak thus - and his voice had changed: 64 Remain true to the earth, my brothers, with the power of your virtue!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
