Ah, where is the lying innocence which I once possessed, the innocence of the good and of their noble lies!
 
 Too oft, truly, did I follow close to the heels of truth: then did it kick me on the face. Sometimes I meant to lie, and Behold. then only did I hit the truth.
 
 Too much has become clear to me: now it does not concern me any more. Nothing lives any longer that I love, - how should I still love myself?
 
 'To live as I incline, or not to live at all': so do I wish; so wishes also the holiest. But Alas. how have I still - inclination?
 
 Have I - still a goal? A haven towards which my sail is set?
 
 A good wind? Ah, he only who knows where he sails, knows what wind is good, and a fair wind for him.
 
 What still remains to me? A heart weary and flippant; an unstable will; fluttering wings; a broken backbone.
 
 This seeking for my home: O Zarathustra, do you know that this seeking has been my home-sickening; it eats me up.
 
 'Where is - my home?' For it do I ask and seek, and have sought, but have not found it. O eternal everywhere, O eternal nowhere, O eternal in-vain!" Thus spoke the shadow, and Zarathustra's countenance lengthened at his words. "you are my shadow!" said he at last sadly.
 
 "your danger is not small, you free spirit and wanderer! you have had a bad day: see that a still worse evening does not overtake you!
 
 To such unsettled ones as you, seems at last even a prisoner blessed.
 
 Didst you ever see how captured criminals sleep? They sleep quietly, they enjoy their new security.
 
 Beware lest in the end a narrow faith capture you, a hard, rigorous delusion! For now everything that is narrow and fixed seduces and tempts you.
 
 You have lost your goal. Alas, how will you forego and forget that loss? Thereby - have you also lost your way!
 
 You poor rover and rambler, you tired butterfly! will you have a rest and a home this evening? Then go up to my cave!
 
 There leads the way to my cave. And now will I run quickly away from you again. Already lies as it were a shadow upon me.
 
 I will run alone, so that it may again become bright around me. Therefore must I still be a long time merrily upon my legs. In the evening, however, there will be - dancing with me!" - Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 213 Part 4, (10) NOONTIDE -AND Zarathustra ran and ran, but he found no one else, and was alone and ever found himself again; he enjoyed and quaffed his solitude, and thought of good things - for hours.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
