May: An important philologist, Ulrich von Wilamowitz attacks the Birth of Tragedy and in October students begin to avoid Nietzsche's classes because of the controversy surrounding his book.
 
 28 - December: Awkward visit by Ritschl who reports Nietzsche is becoming unpopular at the university. February: Ritschl further embittered by Nietzsche's wayward style and writings. Ritschl writes to a friend, "But our Nietzsche! — that it certainly a very muddled chapter… it's remarkable how in that single man two souls live side by side. On the one hand the most rigorous methodology of schooled, scientific research… on the other this phantastic-exaggerated, overly clever, reaching into the incomprehensible, Wagnerian-Schopenhauerian artmysticism-enthusiasm!… What annoys me the most is his impiety against his own mother, who nursed him at her breast: philology." May: Nietzsche begins an intensive reading of books on natural science.
 
 29 - December: More arguments and tension between Ritschl and Nietzsche.
 
 February: Nietzsche continues to be plagued by ill health. Wagner says that marriage is the key to Nietzsche recovering.
 
 July: The faculty by a vote of 6 to 4 decides against admission of women to doctoral programs. One of the faculty voting in favor of admission is Nietzsche.
 
 August: There are disagreements with Wagner. Cosima says, "In all, a clear indication that Nietzsche is unable to "toe the line" as Wagner expects". Vacation in Flims. He writes, "My health has been changeable, so I hope the holidays will be restful and productive. For it is only when I am producing something that I can be really healthy and feel well." (H165) 30 - March-September: Nietzsche works on Schopenhauer as Educator (Untimely Meditations III) 31 - January: For health reasons he is released from teaching at the local High School. February: His illness also interrupts university teaching.
 
 April: He proposes marriage to Mathilde Trampedach but she loves someone else.
 
 June: He requests a year's leave from the university. It is granted, with full salary.
 
 Summer: His close relationship with Wagner has all but ended. His flight from Wagnerian anti-Semitism is extreme. Later, when Wagner sends him a text of his latest opera, he remarks that he almost wishes his 258 Jewish admirer, Siegfried Lipiner would rewrite it.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
