You snow-bearded, silent, winter-sky, you round-eyed whitehead above me! Oh, you heavenly simile of my soul and its wantonness!
 
 And must I not conceal myself like one who has swallowed gold - lest my soul should be ripped up?
 
 Must I not wear stilts, that they may overlook my long legs - all those enviers and injurers around me?
 
 Those dingy, fire-warmed, used-up, green-tinted, ill-natured souls how could their envy endure my happiness!
 
 Thus do I show them only the ice and winter of my peaks - and not that my mountain winds all the solar girdles around it!
 
 They hear only the whistling of my winter-storms: and know not that I also travel over warm seas, like longing, heavy, hot south-winds.
 
 They commiserate also my accidents and chances: - but my word says: "Suffer the chance to come to me: innocent is it as a little child!" How could they endure my happiness, if I did not put around it accidents, and winter-privations, and bear-skin caps, and enmantling snowflakes!
 
 -If I did not myself commiserate their pity, the pity of those enviers and injurers!
 
 -If I did not myself sigh before them, and chatter with cold, and patiently let myself be swathed in their pity!
 
 This is the wise waggish-will and good-will of my soul, that it conceals not its winters and glacial storms; it conceals not its chilblains either.
 
 To one man, lonesomeness is the flight of the sick one; to another, it is the flight from the sick ones.
 
 Let them hear me chattering and sighing with winter-cold, all those poor squinting knaves around me! With such sighing and chattering do I flee from their heated rooms.
 
 Let them sympathise with me and sigh with me on account of my chilblains: "At the ice of knowledge will he yet freeze to death!" - so they mourn.
 
 Meanwhile do I run with warm feet hither and there on my olivemount: in the sunny corner of my olive-mount do I sing, and mock at all pity. Thus sang Zarathustra.
 
 139 Part 3, (7) ON PASSING-BY THUS slowly wandering through many peoples and divers cities, did Zarathustra return by round-about roads to his mountains and his cave.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
