"Give us this last man, O Zarathustra" - they called out "Make us into these last men! Then will we make you a present of the overman!" And all the people laughed and clucked with their tongues.
 
 Zarathustra, however, grew sad, and said to his heart: "They don't understand me: I am not the mouth for these ears.
 
 Perhaps I have lived too long in the mountains; too long have I listened to the brooks and trees: now I speak to them as to the goatherds.
 
 Calm is my soul, and clear, like the mountains in the morning. But they think I am cold, and a mocker with fearful jokes.
 
 And now do they look at me and laugh: and while they laugh they hate me too. There is ice in their laughter." Prologue (6) 6 Then, however, something happened which made every mouth mute and every eye fixed. For meanwhile the tight-rope walker had begun his performance: he had come out from a little door, and was walking along the rope which was stretched between two towers, so that it hung above the market-place and the people. When he was exactly in the middle, the little door opened once more, and a fellow, dressed like a clown or a buffoon, jumped out and walked rapidly after the first one. "Go on, lamefoot," he cried in a frightful voice, "go on, lazybones, intruder, paleface, or I shall tickle you with my heel! What are you doing here between the towers? In the tower is where you belong. You should be locked up there; you block the way for one better than yourself!" - And with every word he came nearer and nearer. However when he was but a step behind, a terrible thing happened which made every mouth silent and every eye fixed - he uttered a yell like a devil, and jumped over the man who was in his way. This man, when he thus saw his rival win, lost both his head and his footing on the rope, threw away his pole, and he plunged even faster downward into the depth, a whirlpool of arms and legs. The market-place and the people were like the sea in a storm: they rushed apart and over one another, especially where the body was to hit the ground.
 
 Zarathustra, however, remained standing, and just beside him fell the 18 body, badly injured and disfigured, but not yet dead.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
