In some ages the heart first, and in others the spirit. And some are hoary in youth, but the late young keep long young.
 
 To many men life is a failure; a poison-worm gnaws at their heart.
 
 Then let them see to it that their dying is all the more a success.
 
 Many never become sweet; they rot even in the summer. It is cowardice that holds them fast to their branches.
 
 Far too many live, and far too long hang they on their branches. Would that a storm came and shook all this rottenness and worm-eatenness from the tree!
 
 Would that there came preachers of speedy death! Those would be the appropriate storms and agitators of the trees of life! But I hear only slow death preached, and patience with all that is "earthly." Ah! you preach patience with what is earthly? This earthly is it that has too much patience with you, you blasphemers!
 
 Truly, too early died that Hebrew whom the preachers of slow death honor: and to many has it proved a calamity that he died too early.
 
 As yet had he known only tears, and the melancholy of the Hebrews, together with the hatred of the good and just - the Hebrew Jesus: then was he seized with the longing for death.
 
 Had he but remained in the wilderness, and far from the good and just!
 
 Then, perhaps, would he have learned to live, and love the earth - and laughter also!
 
 Believe it, my brothers! He died too early; he himself would have disavowed his doctrine had he attained to my age! Noble enough was he to disavow!
 
 But he was still immature. Immaturely loves the youth, and immaturely also hats he man and earth. Confined and awkward are still his soul and the wings of his spirit.
 
 But in man there is more of the child than in the youth, and less of melancholy: better understands he about life and death.
 
 Free for death, and free in death; a holy Naysayer, when there is no longer time for Yes: thus understands he about death and life.
 
 That your dying may not be a reproach to man and the earth, my friends: that do I solicit from the honey of your soul.
 
 In your dying shall your spirit and your virtue still shine like an evening after-glow around the earth: otherwise your dying has been unsatisfactory.
 
 Thus will I die myself, that you friends may love the earth more for my sake; and earth will I again become, to have rest in her that bore me.
 
 62 Truly, a goal had Zarathustra; he threw his ball.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
