And if your hardness will not glance and cut and chip to pieces, how can you one day - create with me?
 
 For the creators are hard. And blessedness must it seem to you to press your hand upon millenniums as upon wax,-Blessedness to write upon the will of millenniums as upon brass, harder than brass, nobler than brass. Entirely hard is only the noblest.
 
 This new table, O my brothers, put I up over you: Become hard! 30.
 
 O you, my Will! you change of every need, my needfulness! Preserve me from all small victories!
 
 You fatedness of my soul, which I call fate! you In-me! Over-me! Preserve and spare me for one great fate!
 
 And your last greatness, my Will, spare it for your last - that you may be inexorable in your victory! Ah, who has not succumbed to his victory!
 
 Ah, whose eye has not bedimmed in this intoxicated twilight! Ah, whose foot has not faltered and forgotten in victory - how to stand!-That I may one day be ready and ripe in the great noon-tide: ready and ripe like the glowing ore, the lightning-bearing cloud, and the swelling milk-udder:-Ready for myself and for my most hidden Will: a bow eager for its arrow, an arrow eager for its star:-A star, ready and ripe in its noontide, glowing, pierced, blessed, by annihilating sun-arrows:-A sun itself, and an inexorable sun-will, ready for annihilation in victory!
 
 O Will, you change of every need, my needfulness! Spare me for one great victory! - Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 3, (13) THE CONVALESCENT 1.
 
 ONE morning, not long after his return to his cave, Zarathustra sprang up from his couch like a madman, crying with a frightful voice, and acting as if someone still lay on the couch who did not wish to rise.
 
 169 Zarathustra's voice also resounded in such a manner that his animals came to him frightened, and out of all the neighbouring caves and lurking-places all the creatures slipped away - flying, fluttering, creeping or leaping, according to their variety of foot or wing.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
