Is your spirit not too cleanly for this praying and the fumes of those devotees?" "There is something therein," said the spiritually conscientious one, and put his finger to his nose, "there is something in this spectacle which even does good to my conscience.
 
 Perhaps I dare not believe in God: certain it is however, that God seems to me most worthy of belief in this form.
 
 God is said to be eternal, according to the testimony of the most pious: he who has so much time takes his time. As slow and as stupid as possible: thereby can such a one nevertheless go very far.
 
 And he who has too much spirit might well become infatuated with stupidity and folly. Think of yourself, O Zarathustra!
 
 You yourself - truly! even you could well become an ass through superabundance of wisdom.
 
 does not the true sage willingly walk on the most crooked paths? The evidence teaches it, O Zarathustra, - your own evidence!" -"And you yourself, finally," said Zarathustra, and turned towards the ugliest man, who still lay on the ground stretching up his arm to the ass (for he gave it wine to drink). "Say, you nondescript, what have you been about!
 
 You seem to me transformed, your eyes glow, the mantle of the sublime covers your ugliness: what didst you do?
 
 Is it then true what they say, that you have again awakened him? And why? Was he not for good reasons killed and made away with?
 
 You yourself seem to me awakened: what didst you do? why didst you turn round? Why didst you get converted? Speak, you nondescript!" "O Zarathustra," answered the ugliest man, "you are a rogue!
 
 Whether he yet lives, or again lives, or is thoroughly dead - which of us both knows that best? I ask you.
 
 One thing however do I know, - from yourself did I learn it once, O Zarathustra: he who wants to kill most thoroughly, laughs.
 
 'Not by wrath but by laughter does one kill' - thus spoke you once, O Zarathustra, you hidden one, you destroyer without wrath, you dangerous saint, - you are a rogue!" 2.
 
 Then, however, did it come to pass that Zarathustra, astonished at such merely roguish answers, jumped back to the door of his cave, and turning towards all his guests, cried out with a strong voice: "O you wags, all of you, you buffoons! Why do you dissemble and disguise yourselves before me!
 
 245 How the hearts of all of you convulsed with delight and wickedness, because you had at last become again like little children - namely, pious,-Because you at last did again as children do - namely, prayed, folded your hands and said 'good God'!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
