you long (it almost seems so to me - forgive my presumption, you higher men)-You long for the worst and most dangerous life, which frightens me most, - for the life of wild beasts, for forests, caves, steep mountains and labyrinthine gorges.
 
 And it is not those who lead out of danger that please you best, but those who lead you away from all paths, the misleaders. But if such longing in you be actual, it seems to me nevertheless to be impossible.
 
 For fear - that is man's original and fundamental feeling; through fear everything is explained, original sin and original virtue. Through fear there grew also my virtue, that is to say: Science.
 
 For fear of wild animals - that has been longest fostered in man, inclusive of the animal which he conceals and fears in himself: - Zarathustra calls it 'the beast inside.' Such prolonged ancient fear, at last become subtle, spiritual and intellectual - at present, me thinks, it is called Science."Thus spoke the conscientious one; but Zarathustra, who had just come back into his cave and had heard and divined the last discourse, threw a handful of roses to the conscientious one, and laughed on account of his "truths." "Why!" he exclaimed, "what did I hear just now? Truly, it seems to me, you are a fool, or else I myself am one: and quietly and quickly will I Put your 'truth' upside down.
 
 For fear - is an exception with us. Courage, however, and adventure, and delight in the uncertain, in the unattempted - courage seems to me the entire primitive history of man.
 
 The wildest and most courageous animals has he envied and robbed of all their virtues: thus only did he become - man.
 
 This courage, at last become subtle, spiritual and intellectual, this human courage, with eagle's pinions and serpent's wisdom: this, it seems to me, is called at present-" "Zarathustra!" cried all of them there assembled, as if with one voice, and burst out at the same time into a great laughter; there arose, however, from them as it were a heavy cloud. Even the magician laughed, and said wisely: "Well! It is gone, my evil spirit!
 
 And did I not myself warn you against it when I said that it was a deceiver, a lying and deceiving spirit?
 
 Especially when it shows itself naked. But what can I do with regard to its tricks! Have I created it and the world?
 
 Well! Let us be good again, and of good cheer! And although 235 Zarathustra looks with evil eye - just see him!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
