Truly, it convulses and opens the heart of the lone seafarer.
 
 Still am I the richest and most to be envied - I, the most lonesome one!
 
 For I have possessed you, and you possess me still. Tell me: to whom has there ever fallen such rosy apples from the tree as have fallen to me?
 
 Still am I your love's heir and heritage, blooming to your memory with many-hued, wild-growing virtues, O you dearest ones!
 
 Ah, we were made to remain close to each other, you kindly strange marvels; and not like timid birds did you come to me and my longing no, but as trusting ones to a trusting one!
 
 Yes, made for faithfulness, like me, and for fond eternities, must I now name you by your faithlessness, you divine glances and fleeting gleams: no other name have I yet learnt.
 
 Truly, too early did you die for me, you fugitives. Yet did you not flee from me, nor did I flee from you: innocent are we to each other in our faithlessness.
 
 To kill me, did they strangle you, you singing birds of my hopes! Yes, at you, you dearest ones, did malice ever shoot its arrows - to hit my heart!
 
 And they hit it! Because you were always my dearest, my possession and my possessedness: on that account had you to die young, and far too early!
 
 At my most vulnerable point did they shoot the arrow - namely, at you, whose skin is like down - or more like the smile that had at a glance!
 
 But this word will I say to my enemies: What is all manslaughter in comparison with what you have done to me!
 
 Worse evil did you do to me than all manslaughter; the irretrievable did you take from me: - thus do I speak to you, my enemies!
 
 Slew you not my youth's visions and dearest marvels! My playmates took you from me, the blessed spirits! To their memory do I deposit this wreath and this curse.
 
 This curse upon you, my enemies! Have you not made my eternal short, as a tone had away in a cold night! Scarcely, as the twinkle of divine eyes, did it come to me - as a fleeting gleam!
 
 Thus spoke once in a happy hour my purity: "Divine shall everything be to me." Then did you haunt me with foul phantoms; ah, where has that happy hour now fled!
 
 90 "All days shall be holy to me" - so spoke once the wisdom of my youth: truly, the language of a joyous wisdom!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
