""Everything straight lies," murmured the dwarf, contemptuously. "All truth is crooked; time itself is a circle." "you spirit of gravity!" said I wrathfully, "do not take it too lightly! Or I shall let you squat where you squattest, Haltfoot, - and I carried you high!" "Observe," continued I, "This Moment! From the gateway, This Moment, there runs a long eternal lane backwards: behind us lies an eternity.
 
 Must not whatever can run its course of all things, have already run along that lane? Must not whatever can happen of all things have already happened, resulted, and gone by?
 
 And if everything has already existed, what think you, dwarf, of This Moment? Must not this gateway also - have already existed?
 
 And are not all things closely bound together in such wise that This Moment draws all coming things after it? Consequently - itself also?
 
 For whatever can run its course of all things, also in this long lane outward - must it once more run!And this slow spider which creeps in the moonlight, and this moonlight itself, and you and I in this gateway whispering together, whispering of eternal things - must we not all have already existed?
 
 -And must we not return and run in that other lane out before us, that long weird lane - must we not eternally return?"Thus did I speak, and always more softly: for I was afraid of my own thoughts, and arrear-thoughts. Then, suddenly did I hear a dog howl near me.
 
 Had I ever heard a dog howl thus? My thoughts ran back. Yes! When I was a child, in my most distant childhood: -Then did I hear a dog howl thus. And saw it also, with hair bristling, its head upwards, trembling in the stillest midnight, when even dogs believe in ghosts: -So that it excited my commiseration. For just then went the full moon, silent as death, over the house; just then did it stand still, a glowing globe - at rest on the flat roof, as if on some one's property:Thereby had the dog been terrified: for dogs believe in thieves and ghosts. And when I again heard such howling, then did it excite my commiseration once more.
 
 Where was now the dwarf? And the gateway? And the spider? And all the whispering? Had I dreamt? Had I awakened? between rugged rocks 126 did I suddenly stand alone, dreary in the dreariest moonlight.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
