he dislikes me-: -Ere night comes will he again learn to love and laud me; he cannot live long without committing such follies.
 
 He - loves his enemies: this art knows he better than anyone I have seen. But he takes revenge for it - on his friends!" Thus spoke the old magician, and the higher men applauded him; so that Zarathustra went round, and mischievously and lovingly shook hands with his friends, - like one who has to make amends and apologise to everyone for something. When however he had thereby come to the door of his cave, behold, then had he again a longing for the good air outside, and for his animals, - and wished to steal out.
 
 Part 4, (16) AMONG DAUGHTERS OF THE DESERT 1.
 
 "GO NOT away!" said then the wanderer who called himself Zarathustra's shadow, "abide with us - otherwise the old gloomy affliction might again fall upon us.
 
 Now has that old magician given us of his worst for our good, and Behold. the good, pious pope there has tears in his eyes, and has quite embarked again upon the sea of melancholy.
 
 Those kings may well put on a good air before us still: for that have they learned best of us all at present! Had they however no one to see them, I wager that with them also the bad game would again commence,-The bad game of drifting clouds, of damp melancholy, of curtained heavens, of stolen suns, of howling autumn-winds, -The bad game of our howling and crying for help! Abide with us, O Zarathustra! Here there is much concealed misery that wishes to speak, much evening, much cloud, much damp air!
 
 You have nourished us with strong food for men, and powerful proverbs: do not let the weakly, womanly spirits attack us anew at dessert!
 
 You alone make the air around you strong and clear. Did I ever find anywhere on earth such good air as with you in your cave?
 
 Many lands have I seen, my nose has learned to test and estimate many kinds of air: but with you do my nostrils taste their greatest delight!
 
 Unless it be, - unless it be-, do forgive an old recollection! Forgive me 236 an old after-dinner song, which I once composed among daughters of the desert:For with them was there equally good, clear, Oriental air; there was I furthest from cloudy, damp, melancholy Old-Europe!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
