I see many soldiers; could I but see many warriors! "Uniform" one calls what they wear; may that which it hides not be uniform!
 
 You shall be those whose eyes ever seek for an enemy - for your enemy. And with some of you there is hatred at first sight.
 
 Your enemy shall you seek; your war shall you wage, and for the sake of your thoughts! And if your thoughts succumb, your uprightness shall still shout triumph thereby!
 
 You shall love peace as a means to new wars - and the short peace more than the long.
 
 You I advise not to work, but to fight. You I advise not to peace, but to victory. Let your work be a fight, let your peace be a victory!
 
 One can only be silent and sit peacefully when one has bow and arrow; otherwise one chatters and quarrels. Let your peace be a victory!
 
 You say it is the good cause which sanctifies even war? I say to you: it is the good war which hallows every cause.
 
 War and courage have done more great things than charity. Not your sympathy, but your bravery has thus far saved the victims.
 
 "What is good?" you ask. To be brave is good. Let the little girls say: "To be good is what is pretty, and at the same time touching." They call you heartless: but your heart is true, and I love the bashfulness of your goodwill. you are ashamed of your flow, and others are ashamed of their ebb.
 
 You are ugly? Well then, my brothers, take the sublime about you, the mantle of the ugly!
 
 And when your soul becomes great, then does it become high-spirited, and in your sublimeness there is wickedness. I know you.
 
 In wickedness the high-spirited man and the weakling meet. But they misunderstand one another. I know you.
 
 You shall only have enemies to be hated, but not enemies to be despised. you must be proud of your enemies; then, the successes of your enemies are also your successes.
 
 Resistance - that is the distinction of the slave. Let your distinction be obedience. Let your commanding itself be obeying!
 
 To the good warrior sounds "you shall" more pleasant than "I will." And all that is dear to you, you shall first have it commanded to you.
 
 Let your love to life be love to your highest hope; and let your highest hope be the highest thought of life!
 
 Your highest thought, however, you shall have it commanded to you by me - and it is this: man is something that is to be surpassed.
 
 42 So live your life of obedience and of war!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
