O my soul, I washed the petty shame and the by-place virtue from you, and persuaded you to stand naked before the eyes of the sun.
 
 With the storm that is called "spirit" did I blow over your surging sea; all clouds did I blow away from it; I strangled even the strangler called "sin." O my soul, I gave you the right to say No like the storm, and to say yes as the open heaven says Yes: calm as the light you remain, and now walk through denying storms.
 
 O my soul, I restored to you liberty over the created and the uncreated; and who knows, as you know, the voluptuousness of the future?
 
 O my soul, I taught you the contempt which does not come like wormeating, the great, the loving contempt, which loves most where it contemns most.
 
 O my soul, I taught you so to persuade that you persuade even the grounds themselves to you: like the sun, which persuades even the sea to its height.
 
 O my soul, I have taken from you all obeying and knee-bending and homage-paying; I have myself given you the names, "Change of need" and "Fate." O my soul, I have given you new names and gay-coloured playthings, I have called you "Fate" and "the Circuit of circuits" and "the Navel-string of time" and "the Azure bell." O my soul, to your domain gave I all wisdom to drink all new wines, and also all immemorially old strong wines of wisdom.
 
 O my soul, every sun shed I upon you, and every night and every silence and every longing: - then grew you up for me as a vine.
 
 O my soul, exuberant and heavy do you now stand forth, a vine with swelling udders and full clusters of brown golden grapes:-Filled and weighted by your happiness, waiting from superabundance, and yet ashamed of your waiting.
 
 O my soul, there is nowhere a soul which could be more loving and more comprehensive and more extensive! Where could future and past be closer together than with you?
 
 O my soul, I have given you everything, and all my hands have become empty by you: - and now! Now say you to me, smiling and full of melancholy: "Which of us owes thanks?-does the giver not owe thanks because the receiver received? Is bestowing not a necessity? Is receiving not - pitying?" O my soul, I understand the smiling of your melancholy: your over175 abundance itself now stretchs out longing hands!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
