" The creator, hate they most, him who breaks the tables and old values, the breaker, - him they call the law-breaker.
 
 For the good - they cannot create; they are always the beginning of the end:-They crucify him who writes new values on new tables, they sacrifice to themselves the future - they crucify the whole human future!
 
 The good - they have always been the beginning of the end. 27.
 
 O my brothers, have you also understood this word? And what I once said of the "last man"? - With whom lies the greatest danger to the whole human future? Is it not with the good and just?
 
 Break up, break up, I pray you, the good and just! - O my brothers, have you understood also this word?
 
 28.
 
 You flee from me? you are frightened? you tremble at this word?
 
 O my brothers, when I enjoined you to break up the good, and the tables of the good, then only did I embark man on his high seas.
 
 And now only comes to him the great terror, the great outlook, the great sickness, the great nausea, the great seasickness.
 
 False shores and false securities did the good teach you; in the lies of the good you were born and bred. Everything has been radically contorted and distorted by the good.
 
 But he who discovered the country of "man," discovered also the country of "man's future." Now shall you be sailors for me, brave, patient!
 
 Keep yourselves up betimes, my brothers, learn to keep yourselves up!
 
 The sea storms: many seek to raise themselves again by you.
 
 The sea storms: all is in the sea. Well! Cheer up! you old seaman-hearts!
 
 What of fatherland! There strives our helm where our children's land is! In that direction, stormier than the sea, storms our great longing! 29.
 
 "Why so hard!" - said to the diamond one day the charcoal; "are we then not near relatives?"Why so soft? O my brothers; thus do I ask you: are you then not - my brothers?
 
 Why so soft, so submissive and yielding? Why is there so much negation and abnegation in your hearts? Why is there so little fate in your looks?
 
 168 And if you will not be fates and inexorable ones, how can you one day - conquer with me?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
