A truth which only glides into sensitive ears, he calls a lie and nothing.
 
 Truly, he believes only in gods that make a great noise in the world!
 
 Full of ceremonial clowns is the market-place, - and the people glory in their great men! These are for them the masters of the hour.
 
 But the hour presses them; so they press you. And also from you they want Yes or No. Alas. you would set your chair between For and Against?
 
 On account of those absolute and impatient ones, be not jealous, you lover of truth! Never yet did truth cling to the arm of an absolute one.
 
 On account of those abrupt ones, return into your security: only in the market-place is one assailed by Yes? or No?
 
 Slow is the experience of all deep fountains: long have they to wait until they know what has fallen into their depths.
 
 Away from the market-place and from fame takes place all that is great: away from the market-Place and from fame have ever dwelt the devisers of new values.
 
 Flee, my friend, into your solitude: I see you stung all over by the poisonous flies. Flee there, where a rough, strong breeze blows!
 
 Flee into your solitude! you have lived too closely to the small and the pitiable. Flee from their invisible vengeance! Towards you they have nothing but vengeance.
 
 Raise no longer an arm against them! Innumerable are they, and it is not your lot to shoo flies.
 
 Innumerable are the small and pitiable ones; and of many a proud structure, rain-drops and weeds have been the ruin.
 
 You are not stone; but already have you become hollow by the numerous drops. you will yet break and burst by the numerous drops.
 
 Exhausted I see you, by poisonous flies; bleeding I see you, and torn at a hundred spots; and your pride will not even upbraid.
 
 Blood they would have from you in all innocence; blood their bloodless souls crave for - and they sting, therefore, in all innocence.
 
 But you, profound one, you suffer too profoundly even from small wounds; and ere you had recovered, the same poison-worm crawled over your hand.
 
 Too proud are you to kill these sweet-tooths. But take care lest it be your fate to suffer all their poisonous injustice!
 
 They buzz around you also with their praise: obtrusiveness is their praise. They want to be close to your skin and your blood.
 
 They flatter you, as one flatters a God or devil; they whimper before 46 you, as before a God or devil; What does it come to!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
