Ah! The dog howls, the moon shins. Rather will I die, rather will I die, than say to you what my midnight-heart now thinks.
 
 Already have I died. It is all over. Spider, why spin you around me?
 
 will you have blood? Ah! Ah! The dew falls, the hour comes-The hour in which I frost and freeze, which asks and asks and asks: "Who has sufficient courage for it?
 
 -Who is to be master of the world? Who is going to say: Thus shall you flow, you great and small streams!" -The hour approaches: O man, you higher man, take heed! this talk is for fine ears, for your ears - what says deep midnight's voice indeed?
 
 5.
 
 It carries me away, my soul dances. Day's-work! Day's-work! Who is to be master of the world?
 
 The moon is cool, the wind is still. Ah! Ah! Have you already flown high enough? you have danced: a leg, nevertheless, is not a wing.
 
 You good dancers, now is all delight over: wine has become lees, every cup has become brittle, the sepulchres mutter.
 
 You have not flown high enough: now do the sepulchres mutter: "Free the dead! Why is it so long night? does not the moon make us drunken?" You higher men, free the sepulchres, awaken the corpses! Ah, why does the worm still burrow? There approaches, there approaches, the hour,-There booms the clock-bell, there thrills still the heart, there burrows still the wood-worm, the heart-worm. Ah! Ah! The world is deep!
 
 6.
 
 Sweet lyre! Sweet lyre! I love your tone, your drunken, ranunculine tone! - how long, how far has come to me your tone, from the distance, from the ponds of love!
 
 You old clock-bell, you sweet lyre! Every pain has torn your heart, father-pain, fathers'-pain, forefathers'-pain; your speech has become ripe,-Ripe like the golden autumn and the afternoon, like my hermit heart now say you: The world itself has become ripe, the grape turns brown, -Now does it wish to die, to die of happiness. you higher men, do you not feel it? There wells up mysteriously an odour, -A perfume and odour of eternity, a rosy-blessed, brown, gold-wineodour of old happiness.
 
 -Of drunken midnight-death happiness, which sings: the world is deep, and deeper than the day could read!
 
 7.
 
 249 Leave me alone!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
