Who created for themselves such caves and penitence-stairs? Was it not those who sought to conceal themselves, and were ashamed under the clear sky?
 
 And only when the clear sky looks again through ruined roofs, and down upon grass and red poppies on ruined walls - will I again turn my heart to the seats of this God.
 
 They called God that which opposed and afflicted them: and truly, there was much hero-spirit in their worship!
 
 And they knew not how to love their God otherwise than by nailing men to the cross!
 
 As corpses they thought to live; in black draped they their corpses; even in their talk do I still feel the evil favor of charnel-houses.
 
 And he who lives close to them lives close to black pools, wherein the toad sings his song with sweet gravity.
 
 Better songs would they have to sing, for me to believe in their Saviour: more! like saved ones would his disciples have to appear to me!
 
 Naked, would I like to see them: for beauty alone should preach penitence. But whom would that disguised affliction convince!
 
 Truly, their saviors themselves came not from freedom and freedom's seventh heaven! Truly, they themselves never trod the carpets of knowledge!
 
 Of defects did the spirit of those saviors consist; but into every defect had they put their illusion, their stop-gap, which they called God.
 
 In their pity was their spirit drowned; and when they swelled and overswelled with pity, there always floated to the surface a great folly.
 
 Eagerly and with shouts drove they their flock over their foot-bridge; as if there were but one foot-bridge to the future! Truly, those shepherds also were still of the flock!
 
 Small spirits and spacious souls had those shepherds: but, my brothers, what small domains have even the most spacious souls thus far been!
 
 Characters of blood did they write on the way they went, and their folly taught that truth is proved by blood.
 
 But blood is the very worst witness to truth; blood taints the purest teaching, and turns it into delusion and hatred of heart.
 
 And when a person goes through fire for his teaching - what does that prove! It is more, truly, when out of one's own burning comes one's own teaching!
 
 Sultry heart and cold head; where these meet, there arises the blusterer, the "Saviour." 75 Greater ones, truly, have there been, and higher-born ones, than those whom the people call saviors, those rapturous blusterers!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
