To execute great things is difficult: but the more difficult task is to command great things.
 
 This is your most unpardonable obstinacy: you have the power, and you will not rule."And I answered: "I lack the lion's voice for all commanding." Then was there again spoken to me as a whispering: "It is the stillest words which bring the storm. Thoughts that come with doves' footsteps guide the world.
 
 O Zarathustra, you shall go as a shadow of that which is to come: thus will you command, and in commanding go foremost."And I answered: "I am ashamed." Then was there again spoken to me without voice: "you must yet become a child, and be without shame.
 
 The pride of youth is still upon you; late have you become young: but he who would become a child must surmount even his youth."And I considered a long while, and trembled. At last, however, did I say what I had said at first. "I will not." Then did a laughing take place all around me. Alas, how that laughing lacerated my bowels and cut into my heart!
 
 And there was spoken to me for the last time: "O Zarathustra, your fruits are ripe, but you are not ripe for your fruits!
 
 So must you go again into solitude: for you shall yet become mellow."And again was there a laughing, and it fled: then did it become still around me, as with a double stillness. I lay, however, on the ground, and the sweat flowed from my limbs.
 
 -Now have you heard all, and why I have to return into my solitude.
 
 Nothing have I kept hidden from you, my friends.
 
 But even this have you heard from me, who is still the most reserved of men - and will be so!
 
 Ah, my friends! I should have something more to say to you! I should have something more to give to you! Why do I not give it? Am I then a niggard?When, however, Zarathustra had spoken these words, the violence of his pain, and a sense of the nearness of his departure from his friends came over him, so that he wept aloud; and no one knew how to console him. In the night, however, he went away alone and left his friends.
 
 THIRD PART "You look aloft when you long for exaltation, and I look downward because I am exalted.
 
 119 "Who among you can at the same time laugh and be exalted?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
