And one thing more do I know: I stand now before my last summit, and before that which has been longest reserved for me. Ah, my hardest path must I ascend! Ah, I have begun my lonesomest wandering!
 
 He, however, who is of my nature does not avoid such an hour: the hour that says to him: Now only do you go the way to your greatness!
 
 Summit and abyss - these are now comprised together!
 
 You go the way to your greatness: now has it become your last refuge, what was thus far your last danger!
 
 You go the way to your greatness: it must now be your best courage that there is no longer any path behind you!
 
 You go the way to your greatness: here shall no one steal after your!
 
 Your foot itself has effaced the path behind you, and over it stands written: Impossibility.
 
 And if all ladders henceforth fail you, then must you learn to mount upon your own head: how could you mount upward otherwise?
 
 Upon your own head, and beyond your own heart! Now must the gentlest in you become the hardest.
 
 He who has always much-indulged himself, sickens at last by his much-indulgence. Praises on what makes hardy! I do not praise the land where butter and honey - flow!
 
 To learn to look away from oneself, is necessary in order to see many things. - this hardiness is needed by every mountain-climber.
 
 He, however, who is obtrusive with his eyes as a discerner, how can he ever see more of anything than its foreground!
 
 But you, O Zarathustra, would view the ground of everything, and its background: thus must you mount even above yourself - up, upwards, until you have even your stars under you!
 
 Yes! To look down upon myself, and even upon my stars: that only would I call my summit, that has remained for me as my last summit!Thus spoke Zarathustra to himself while ascending, comforting his heart with harsh maxims: for he was sore at heart as he had never been before. And when he had reached the top of the mountain-ridge, behold, there lay the other sea spread out before him; and he stood still and was long silent. The night, however, was cold at this height, and clear and starry.
 
 I recognise my destiny, said he at last, sadly. Well! I am ready. Now has my last lonesomeness begun.
 
 Ah, this sombre, sad sea, below me! Ah, this sombre nocturnal 122 vexation!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
