There are other singers, for sure, who only sing softly when the place is full, whose hands and eyes show feelings only then, and whose hearts stay awake only in that moment. I am not like them.

Someone who teaches people to fly will change everything. All the old rules will disappear, and he will call the earth something new – “the light body.” An ostrich can run faster than a horse, but it still sticks its head deep into the heavy ground. That’s like someone who can’t fly yet.

The earth and life feel heavy to him, and that’s because of the pull of gravity. But if you want to be light and fly like a bird, you have to love yourself – that’s what I teach.

Not the kind of love that’s fake or selfish, because that kind of love smells bad.

You have to learn to love yourself in a healthy way – that’s my teaching – so you can be okay being alone and not always looking for others.

Some people call wandering around “brotherly love,” but that’s often just lying and pretending, especially by people who cause problems for others.

Loving yourself isn’t something you learn quickly. It’s one of the hardest and most patient skills to master.

For the person who really loves themselves, all other things become easier to have, and their own treasure is the hardest to find – that’s the pull of gravity.

From when we are babies, we are given heavy ideas like “good” and “evil.” We are told these are important, and because of them, we are forgiven for living.

That’s why people don’t let little kids love themselves too much early on – that’s the pull of gravity again.

And we carry what’s given to us, like a heavy load on strong shoulders, over tough mountains! When we work hard, people say, “Life is hard!” But really, the hardest thing to carry is yourself! It’s because we carry too many things that don’t belong to us. Like a camel, we kneel down and accept the heavy load.

Especially the strong people who respect others.

They carry too many heavy ideas that aren’t theirs, and then life feels like a desert to them!
