Or an evil one?
 
 I walk among men as the fragments of the future: that future which I contemplate.
 
 And it is all my poetisation and aspiration to compose and collect into unity what is fragment and riddle and fearful chance.
 
 And how could I endure to be a man, if man were not also the composer, and riddle-reader, and redeemer of chance!
 
 To redeem what is past, and to transform every "It was" into "Thus would I have it!" - that only do I call redemption!
 
 Will - so is the emancipator and joy-bringer called: thus have I taught you, my friends! But now learn this likewise: the Will itself is still a prisoner.
 
 Willing emancipates: but what is that called which still putts the emancipator in chains?
 
 "It was": thus is the Will's teeth-gnashing and lonesomest tribulation called. Impotent towards what has been done - it is a malicious spectator of all that is past.
 
 Not backward can the Will will; that it cannot break time and time's desire - that is the Will's lonesomest tribulation.
 
 Willing emancipates: what does Willing itself devise in order to get free from its tribulation and mock at its prison?
 
 Ah, a fool becomes every prisoner! Foolishly delivers itself also the imprisoned Will.
 
 That time does not run backward - that is its animosity: "That which was": so is the stone which it cannot roll called.
 
 And thus does it roll stones out of animosity and ill-humour, and takes revenge on whatever does not, like it, feel rage and ill-humour.
 
 Thus did the Will, the emancipator, become a torturer; and on all that is capable of suffering it takes revenge, because it cannot go backward.
 
 This, yes, this alone is revenge itself: the Will's antipathy to time, and its "It was." Truly, a great folly dwells in our Will; and it became a curse to all humanity, that this folly acquired spirit!
 
 The spirit of revenge: my friends, that has thus far been man's best contemplation; and where there was suffering, it was claimed there was always penalty.
 
 "Penalty," so calls itself revenge. With a lying word it feigns a good conscience.
 
 And because in the willer himself there is suffering, because he cannot will backwards - thus was Willing itself, and all life, claimed - to be 113 penalty!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
