To sin against the earth is now the most terrible sin, and to revere the entrails of the unknowable higher than the meaning of the earth!
 
 Once the soul looked contemptuously on the body, and that contempt was supreme: the soul wished the body thin, hideous, and starved. Thus it thought to escape from the body and the earth.
 
 Oh, that soul was itself thin, hideous, and starved; and cruelty was the desire of that soul!
 
 But you, also, my brothers, tell me: What does your body say about your soul? Is your soul not poverty and dirt and wretched contentment?
 
 Truly, a dirty stream is man. One must be a sea, to receive a dirty stream without becoming unclean.
 
 Behold, I teach you the overman: he is this sea; in him your great contempt can pass under and away.
 
 What is your greatest experience? It is the hour of the great contempt.
 
 The hour in which even your happiness becomes repulsive to you, and even your reason and virtue.
 
 The hour when you say: "What good is my happiness! It is poverty and dirt and wretched contentment. But my happiness should justify existence itself!" The hour when you say: "What good is my reason! does it long for knowledge as the lion for his food? It is poverty and dirt and wretched contentment!" The hour when you say: "What good are my virtues?! As yet they have not made me rage with passion. How weary I am of my good and evil! It is all poverty and dirt and wretched contentment!" The hour when you say: "What good is my being just and right! I don't see myself as fire and coals. The just and the right, however, are fire and coals." The hour when we say: "What good is my pity! Is not pity the cross on which he is nailed who loves man? But my pity is not a crucifixion." Have you ever spoken this way? Have you ever cried this way? Oh!
 
 that I could hear you cry like this!
 
 It is not your sin - it is your thrift that cries to heaven; it is the meanness of your sin that cries to heaven.
 
 Where is the lightning to lick you with its tongue? Where is the frenzy with which you should be inoculated?
 
 Behold, I teach you the overman: he is that lightning, he is that frenzy.
 
 When Zarathustra had thus spoken, one of the people called out: 14 "We've heard enough of the tightrope walker; now let's see him also!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
