But you know also that my happiness is heavy, and not like a fluid wave of water: it presses me and will not leave me, and is like molten pitch."Then went his animals again thoughtfully around him, and placed themselves once more in front of him. "O Zarathustra," said they, "it is consequently for that reason that you yourself always becomes more yellow and darker, although your hair looks white and flaxen? Behold, you sit in your pitch!" - "What do you say, my animals?" said Zarathustra, laughing; "truly I reviled when I spoke of pitch. As it happens with me, so is it with all fruits that turn ripe. It is the honey in my veins that makes my blood thicker, and also my soul stiller." - "So will it be, O Zarathustra," answered his animals, and pressed up to him; "but will you not today ascend a high mountain? The air is pure, and today one sees more of the world than ever." - "Yes, my animals," answered he, "you counsel admirably and according to my heart: I will today ascend a high mountain! But see that honey is there ready to hand, yellow, white, good, ice-cool, golden-comb-honey. For know that when aloft I will make the honey-sacrifice."When Zarathustra, however, was aloft on the summit, he sent his animals home that had accompanied him, and found that he was now alone: - then he laughed from the bottom of his heart, looked around him, and spoke thus: That I spoke of sacrifices and honey-sacrifices, it was merely a ruse in talking and truly, a useful folly! Here aloft can I now speak freer than in front of mountain-caves and anchorites' domestic animals.
 
 What to sacrifice! I squander what is given me, a squanderer with a thousand hands: how could I call that - sacrificing?
 
 And when I desired honey I only desired bait, and sweet mucus and mucilage, for which even the mouths of growling bears, and strange, sulky, evil birds, water: -The best bait, as huntsmen and fishermen require it. For if the world be as a gloomy forest of animals, and a pleasure-ground for all wild huntsmen, it seems to me rather - and preferably - a fathomless, rich sea; -A sea full of many-hued fishes and crabs, for which even the gods might long, and might be tempted to become fishers in it, and casters of nets, - so rich is the world in wonderful things, great and small!
 
 Especially the human world, the human sea: - towards it do I now throw out my golden angle-rod and say: Open up, you human abyss!
 
 Open up, and throw to me your fish and shining crabs! With my best bait shall I allure to myself today the strangest human fish!
 
 184 -My happiness itself do I throw out into all places far and wide between orient, noontide, and occident, to see if many human fish will not learn to hug and tug at my happiness;Until, biting at my sharp hidden hooks, they have to come up to my height, the most motley abyss-groundlings, to the wickedest of all fishers of men.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
