" Gradually, however, while the higher men held him in their arms, he came back to himself a little, and resisted with his hands the crowd of the honouring and caring ones; but he did not speak. All at once, however, he turned his head quickly, for he seemed to hear something: then laid he his finger on his mouth and said: "Come!" And immediately it became still and mysterious round about; from the depth however there came up slowly the sound of a clock-bell. Zarathustra listened to this, like the higher men; then, however, laid he his finger on his mouth the second time, and said again: "Come! Come! It is getting on to midnight!" - and his voice had changed. But still he had not moved from the spot. Then it became yet stiller and more mysterious, and everything listened, even the ass, and Zarathustra's noble animals, the eagle and the serpent, - likewise the cave of Zarathustra and the big cool moon, and the night itself. Zarathustra, however, laid his hand upon his mouth for the third time, and said: Come! Come! Come! Let us now wander! It is the hour: let us wander into the night!
 
 3.
 
 You higher men, it is getting on to midnight: then will I say something into your ears, as that old clock-bell says it into my ear,-As mysteriously, as frightfully, and as cordially as that midnight clock-bell speaks it to me, which has experienced more than one man: -Which has already counted the smarting throbbings of your fathers' hearts - ah! ah! how it sighs! how it laughs in its dream! the old, deep, deep midnight!
 
 Hush! Hush! Then is there many a thing heard which may not be heard by day; now however, in the cool air, when even all the tumult of your hearts has become still,-Now does it speak, now is it heard, now does it steal into overwakeful, nocturnal souls: ah! ah! how the midnight sighs! how it laughs in its dream!
 
 -Hear you not how it mysteriously, frightfully, and cordially speaks to you, the old deep, deep midnight?
 
 O man, take heed!
 
 4.
 
 Woe to me! where has time gone? Have I not sunk into deep wells? The world sleeps248 Ah!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
