But then did you enemies steal my nights, and sold them to sleepless torture: ah, where has that joyous wisdom now fled?
 
 Once did I long for happy auspices: then did you lead an owl-monster across my path, an adverse sign. Ah, where did my tender longing then flee?
 
 All loathing did I once vow to renounce: then did you change my close ones and nearest ones into ulcerations. Ah, where did my noblest vow then flee?
 
 As a blind one did I once walk in blessed ways: then did you cast filth on the blind one's course: and now is he disgusted with the old footpath.
 
 And when I performed my hardest task, and celebrated the triumph of my victories, then did you make those who loved me call out that I then grieved them most.
 
 Truly, it was always your doing: you embittered to me my best honey, and the diligence of my best bees.
 
 To my charity have you ever sent the most impudent beggars; around my sympathy have you ever crowded the incurably shameless. Thus have you wounded the faith of my virtue.
 
 And when I offered my holiest as a sacrifice, immediately did your "piety" put its fatter gifts beside it: so that my holiest suffocated in the fumes of your fat.
 
 And once did I want to dance as I had never yet danced: beyond all heavens did I want to dance. Then did you seduce my favorite minstrel.
 
 And now has he struck up an awful, melancholy air; alas, he tooted as a mournful horn to my ear!
 
 Murderous minstrel, instrument of evil, most innocent instrument!
 
 Already did I stand prepared for the best dance: then did you slay my rapture with your tones!
 
 Only in the dance do I know how to speak the parable of the highest things: - and now has my grandest parable remained unspoken in my limbs!
 
 Unspoken and unrealized has my highest hope remained! And there have perished for me all the visions and consolations of my youth!
 
 How did I ever bear it? How did I survive and surmount such wounds? How did my soul rise again out of those sepulchers?
 
 Yes, something invulnerable, unburiable is with me, something that would rend rocks asunder: it is called my Will. Silently does it proceed, and unchanged throughout the years.
 
 91 Its course will it go upon my feet, my old Will; hard of heart is its nature and invulnerable.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
