even in your ears, you great souls, it whispers its gloomy lies! Ah!
 
 it finds out the rich hearts which willingly lavish themselves!
 
 Yes, it finds you out too, you conquerors of the old God! Weary you became of the conflict, and now your weariness serves the new idol!
 
 Heroes and honorable ones, it would rather set up around it, the new idol! Gladly it basks in the sunshine of good consciences, - the cold monster!
 
 Everything will it give you, if you worship it, the new idol: thus it purchases the gleam of your virtue, and the glance of your proud eyes.
 
 It seeks to allure by means of you, the many-too-many! Yes, a hellish artifice has here been devised, a death-horse jingling with the trappings of divine honors!
 
 Yes, a dying for many has here been devised, which glorifies itself as life: truly, a hearty service to all preachers of death!
 
 The state, I call it, where all are poison-drinkers, the good and the bad: the state, where all lose themselves, the good and the bad: the state, where the slow suicide of all - is called "life." Just see these superfluous ones! They steal the works of the inventors and the treasures of the wise. Culture, they call their theft - and everything becomes sickness and trouble to them!
 
 Just see these superfluous ones! Sick are they always; they vomit their bile and call it a newspaper. They devour one another, and cannot even digest themselves.
 
 Just see these superfluous ones! Wealth they acquire and become poorer thereby. Power they seek for, and above all, the lever of power, much money - these impotent ones!
 
 See them clamber, these nimble apes! They clamber over one another, and thus scuffle into the mud and the abyss.
 
 Towards the throne they all strive: it is their madness - as if happiness sat on the throne! Often sits filth on the throne. - and often also the throne on filth.
 
 Madmen they all seem to me, and clambering apes, and too eager.
 
 Badly smells their idol to me, the cold monster: badly they all smell to me, these idolaters.
 
 My brothers, will you suffocate in the fumes of their snouts and appetites! Better break the windows and jump into the open air!
 
 Go away from the bad odor! Withdraw from the idolatry of the superfluous!
 
 Go away from the bad odor! Withdraw from the steam of these human sacrifices!
 
 44 Open still remains the earth for great souls.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
