Zarathustra, however, spoke these words: Up, abysmal thought out of my depth! I am your cock and morning dawn, you overslept reptile: Up! Up! My voice shall soon crow you awake!
 
 Unbind the fetters of your ears: listen! For I wish to hear your! Up! Up!
 
 There is thunder enough to make the very graves listen!
 
 And rub the sleep and all the dimness and blindness out of your eyes!
 
 Hear me also with your eyes: my voice is a medicine even for those born blind.
 
 And once you are awake, then shall you ever remain awake. It is not my custom to awake great-grandmothers out of their sleep that I may bid them - sleep on!
 
 You stir, stretch yourself, wheezes? Up! Up! Not wheeze, shall you, but speak to me! Zarathustra calls you, Zarathustra the godless!
 
 I, Zarathustra, the advocate of living, the advocate of suffering, the advocate of the circuit - you do I call, my most abysmal thought!
 
 Joy to me! you come, - I hear your! My abyss speaks, my lowest depth have I turned over into the light!
 
 Joy to me! Come hither! Give me your hand - - ha! let be! aha! - - Disgust, disgust, disgust - - - alas to me!
 
 2.
 
 Hardly, however, had Zarathustra spoken these words, when he fell down as one dead, and remained long as one dead. When however he again came to himself, then was he pale and trembling, and remained lying; and for long he would neither eat nor drink. This condition continued for seven days; his animals, however, did not leave him day nor night, except that the eagle flew forth to fetch food. And what it fetched and foraged, it laid on Zarathustra's couch: so that Zarathustra at last lay among yellow and red berries, grapes, rosy apples, sweet-smelling herbage, and pine-cones. At his feet, however, two lambs were stretched, which the eagle had with difficulty carried off from their shepherds.
 
 At last, after seven days, Zarathustra raised himself upon his couch, took a rosy apple in his hand, smelt it and found its smell pleasant. Then did his animals think the time had come to speak to him.
 
 "O Zarathustra," said they, "now have you lain thus for seven days with heavy eyes: will you not set yourself again upon your feet?
 
 170 Step out of your cave: the world waits for you as a garden.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
