But does Zarathustra need to be frightened by his shadow? Also, methinks that after all it has longer legs thin mine." Thus spoke Zarathustra, and, laughing with eyes and entrails, he stood still and turned round quickly - and behold, he almost thereby threw his shadow and follower to the ground, so closely had the latter followed at his heels, and so weak was he. For when Zarathustra scrutinised him with his glance he was frightened as by a sudden apparition, so slender, swarthy, hollow and worn-out did this follower appear.
 
 "Who are you?" asked Zarathustra vehemently, "what do you here?
 
 And why call you yourself my shadow? you are not pleasing to me." "Forgive me," answered the shadow, "that it is I; and if I please you not - well, O Zarathustra! therein do I admire you and your good taste.
 
 A wanderer am I, who have walked long at your heels; always on the way, but without a goal, also without a home: so that truly, I lack little of being the eternally Wandering Jew, except that I am not eternal and not a Jew.
 
 What? Must I ever be on the way? Whirled by every wind, unsettled, driven about? O earth, you have become too round for me!
 
 On every surface have I already sat, like tired dust have I fallen asleep on mirrors and window-panes: everything takes from me, nothing gives; I become thin - I am almost equal to a shadow.
 
 After you, however, O Zarathustra, did I fly and hasten longest; and though I hid myself from you, I was nevertheless your best shadow: wherever you have sat, there sat I also.
 
 With you have I wandered about in the remotest, coldest worlds, like a phantom that voluntarily haunts winter roofs and snows.
 
 With you have I pushed into all the forbidden, all the worst and the furthest: and if there be anything of virtue in me, it is that I have had no fear of any prohibition.
 
 With you have I broken up whatever my heart revered; all boundarystones and statues have I overthrown; the most dangerous wishes did I pursue, - truly, beyond every crime did I once go.
 
 With you did I unlearn the belief in words and worths and in great names. When the devil casts his skin, does not his name also fall away? It is also skin. The devil himself is perhaps - skin.
 
 'Nothing is true, all is permitted': so said I to myself. Into the coldest water did I plunge with head and heart. Ah, how oft did I stand there naked on that account, like a red crab!
 
 Ah, where have gone all my goodness and all my shame and all my 212 belief in the good!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
