Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (14) THE LAND OF CULTURE TOO far did I fly into the future: a horror seized upon me.
 
 And when I looked around me, Behold. there time was my sole contemporary.
 
 Then did I fly backwards, homewards - and always faster. Thus did I come to you: you present-day men, and into the land of culture.
 
 For the first time brought I an eye to see you, and good desire: truly, with longing in my heart did I come.
 
 But how did it turn out with me? Although so alarmed - I had yet to laugh! Never did my eye see anything so motley-coloured!
 
 I laughed and laughed, while my foot still trembled, and my heart as well. "Here indeed, is the home of all the paint-pots," - said I.
 
 With fifty patches painted on faces and limbs - so sat you there to my astonishment, you present-day men!
 
 And with fifty mirrors around you, which flattered your play of colours, and repeated it!
 
 Truly, you could wear no better masks, you present-day men, than your own faces! Who could - recognise you!
 
 Written all over with the characters of the past, and these characters also pencilled over with new characters - thus have you concealed yourselves well from all decipherers!
 
 And though one be a trier of the reins, who still believes that you have reins! Out of colours you seem to be baked, and out of glued scraps.
 
 All times and peoples gaze divers-coloured out of your veils; all customs and beliefs speak divers-coloured out of your gestures.
 
 He who would strip you of veils and wrappers, and paints and gestures, would just have enough left to scare the crows.
 
 Truly, I myself am the scared crow that once saw you naked, and without paint; and I flew away when the skeleton ogled at me.
 
 Rather would I be a day-labourer in the underworld, and among the shades of the by-gone! - Fatter and fuller than you, are indeed the underworldlings!
 
 This, yes this, is bitterness to my bowels, that I can neither endure you 97 naked nor clothed, you present-day men!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
