" Surpass yourself even in your neighbour: and a right which you can seize upon, shall you not allow to be given you!
 
 What you do can no one do to you again. Behold, there is no requital.
 
 He who cannot command himself shall obey. And many a one can command himself, but still sorely lacks self-obedience!
 
 5.
 
 Thus wishes the type of noble souls: they desire to have nothing gratuitously, least of all, life.
 
 He who is of the populace wishes to live gratuitously; we others, however, to whom life has given itself - we are ever considering what we can best give in return!
 
 And truly, it is a noble dictum which says: "What life promises us, that promise will we keep - to life!" One should not wish to enjoy where one does not contribute to the enjoyment. And one should not wish to enjoy!
 
 For enjoyment and innocence are the most bashful things. Neither like to be sought for. One should have them, - but one should rather seek for guilt and pain! 6.
 
 O my brothers, he who is a firstling is ever sacrificed. Now, however, are we firstlings!
 
 We all bleed on secret sacrificial altars, we all burn and broil in honour of ancient idols.
 
 Our best is still young: this excites old palates. Our flesh is tender, our skin is only lambs' skin: - how could we not excite old idol-priests!
 
 In ourselves dwells he still, the old idol-priest, who broils our best for his banquet. Ah, my brothers, how could firstlings fail to be sacrifices!
 
 But so wishes our type; and I love those who do not wish to preserve themselves, the down-going ones do I love with my entire love: for they go beyond. 7.
 
 To be true - that can few be! And he who can, will not! Least of all, however, can the good be true.
 
 Oh, those good ones! Good men never speak the truth. For the spirit, thus to be good, is a malady.
 
 They yield, those good ones, they submit themselves; their heart repeats, their soul obeys: he, however, who obeys, does not listen to himself!
 
 All that is called evil by the good, must come together in order that one 158 truth may be born.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
