They cast their eye down into the fountain: and now glances up to me their odious smile out of the fountain.
 
 The holy water have they poisoned with their lustfulness; and when they called their filthy dreams delight, then poisoned they also the words.
 
 Indignant becomes the flame when they put their damp hearts to the fire; the spirit itself bubbles and smokes when the rabble approach the fire.
 
 Mawkish and over-mellow becomes the fruit in their hands: unsteady, and withered at the top, does their look make the fruit-tree.
 
 And many a one who has turned away from life, has only turned away from the rabble: he hated to share with them fountain, flame, and fruit.
 
 And many a one who has gone into the wilderness and suffered thirst with beasts of prey, disliked only to sit at the cistern with filthy cameldrivers.
 
 And many a one who has come along as a destroyer, and as a hailstorm to all cornfields, wanted merely to put his foot into the jaws of the rabble, and thus stop their throat.
 
 And it is not the mouthful which has most choked me, to know that life itself requires enmity and death and torture-crosses:But I asked once, and suffocated almost with my question: What? Is the rabble also necessary for life?
 
 Are poisoned fountains necessary, and stinking fires, and filthy dreams, and maggots in the bread of life?
 
 Not my hatred, but my loathing, gnawed hungrily at my life! Ah, often became I weary of spirit, when I found even the rabble spiritual!
 
 And on the rulers turned I my back, when I saw what they now call ruling: to traffic and bargain for power - with the rabble!
 
 Among peoples of a strange language did I dwell, with stopped ears: so that the language of their trafficking might remain strange to me, and their bargaining for power.
 
 And holding my nose, I went morosely through all yesterdays and todays: truly, badly smell all yesterdays and todays of the scribbling rabble!
 
 Like a cripple become deaf, and blind, and dumb - thus have I lived long; that I might not live with the power-rabble, the scribe-rabble, and the pleasure-rabble.
 
 Toilsomely did my spirit mount stairs, and cautiously; alms of delight were its refreshment; on the staff did life creep along with the blind one.
 
 79 What has happened to me?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
