Now beside me! And quickly, wickedly springing! Now up! And over!
 
 - Alas. I have fallen myself overswinging!
 
 Oh, see me lying, you arrogant one, and imploring grace! Gladly would I walk with you - in some lovelier place!
 
 -In the paths of love, through bushes variegated, quiet, trim! Or there along the lake, where gold-fishes dance and swim!
 
 You are now a-weary? There above are sheep and sun-set stripes: is it not sweet to sleep - the shepherd pipes?
 
 You are so very weary? I carry you there; let just your arm sink! And are you thirsty - I should have something; but your mouth would not like it to drink!-Oh, that cursed, nimble, supple serpent and lurking-witch! Where are you gone? But in my face do I feel through your hand, two spots and red blotches itch!
 
 I am truly weary of it, ever your sheepish shepherd to be. you witch, if I have thus far sung to you, now shall you - cry to me!
 
 To the rhythm of my whip shall you dance and cry! I forget not my whip? - Not I!" 2.
 
 Then did Life answer me thus, and kept thereby her fine ears closed: "O Zarathustra! Crack not so terribly with your whip! you know surely that noise kills thought, - and just now there came to me such delicate thoughts.
 
 We are both of us genuine ne'er-do-wells and ne'er-do-ills. Beyond good and evil found we our island and our green meadow - we two alone! Therefore must we be friendly to each other!
 
 And even should we not love each other from the bottom of our hearts, - must we then have a grudge against each other if we do not love each other perfectly?
 
 And that I am friendly to you, and often too friendly, that know you: and the reason is that I am envious of your Wisdom. Ah, this mad old fool, Wisdom!
 
 If your Wisdom should one day run away from you, ah! then would also my love run away from you quickly." Thereupon did Life look thoughtfully behind and around, and said softly: "O Zarathustra, you are not faithful enough to me!
 
 You love me not nearly so much as you say; I know you think of soon leaving me.
 
 178 There is an old heavy, heavy, booming-clock: it booms by night up to your cave:-When you hear this clock strike the hours at midnight, then think you between one and twelve thereon-you think thereon, O Zarathustra, I know it - of soon leaving me!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
