would you seek the way to yourself? Tarry yet a little and listen to me.
 
 "He who seeks may easily get lost himself. All isolation is wrong": so say the herd. And long did you belong to the herd.
 
 The voice of the herd will still echo in you. And when you say, "I have no longer a conscience in common with you," then will it be a plaint and a pain.
 
 Behold, that pain itself did the same conscience produce; and the last gleam of that conscience still glows on your affliction.
 
 But you would go the way of your affliction, which is the way to yourself? Then show me your authority and your strength to do so!
 
 Are you a new strength and a new authority? A first motion? A selfrolling wheel? can you also compel stars to revolve around you?
 
 Alas. there is so much lusting for loftiness! There are so many convulsions of the ambitions! Show me that you are not a lusting and ambitious one!
 
 Alas. there are so many great thoughts that do nothing more than the bellows: they inflate, and make emptier than ever.
 
 Free, do you call yourself? your ruling thought would I hear of, and not that you have escaped from a yoke.
 
 Are you one entitled to escape from a yoke? Many a one has cast away his final worth when he has cast away his servitude.
 
 Free from what? What does that matter to Zarathustra! Clearly, however, shall your eye show to me: free for what?
 
 can you give to yourself your bad and your good, and set up your will as a law over you? can you be judge for yourself, and avenger of your law?
 
 Terrible is aloneness with the judge and avenger of one's own law.
 
 Thus is a star projected into desert space, and into the icy breath of aloneness.
 
 To-day suffer you still from the multitude, you individual; to-day have you still your courage unabated, and your hopes.
 
 But one day will the solitude weary you; one day will your pride yield, and your courage quail. you will one day cry: "I am alone!" 54 One day will you see no longer your loftiness, and see too closely your lowliness; your sublimity itself will frighten you as a phantom.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
