Behold. what have I been since you have appeared among us? It is my envy of you that has destroyed me!" - Thus spoke the youth, and wept bitterly. Zarathustra, however, put his arm about him, and led the youth away with him.
 
 And when they had walked a while together, Zarathustra began to speak thus: It rends my heart. Better than your words express it, your eyes tell me all your danger.
 
 As yet you are not free; you still seek freedom. Too unslept has your seeking made you, and too wakeful.
 
 On the open height would you be; for the stars thirsts your soul. But your bad impulses also thirst for freedom.
 
 Your wild dogs want liberty; they bark for joy in their cellar when your spirit endeavor to open all prison doors.
 
 Still are you a prisoner - it seems to me - who devises liberty for himself: ah! sharp becomes the soul of such prisoners, but also deceitful and wicked.
 
 It is still necessary for the liberated spirit to purify himself. Much of the prison and the mould still remains in him: pure has his eye still to become.
 
 Yes, I know your danger. But by my love and hope I appeal to you: cast not your love and hope away!
 
 Noble you feel yourself still, and noble others also feel you still, though they bear you a grudge and cast evil looks. Know this, that to everybody a noble one stands in the way.
 
 Also to the good, a noble one stands in the way: and even when they call him a good man, they want thereby to put him aside.
 
 The new, would the noble man create, and a new virtue. The old, wants the good man, and that the old should be conserved.
 
 But it is not the danger of the noble man to turn a good man, but lest he should become an arrogant boor , a mocker, or a destroyer.
 
 Ah! I have known noble ones who lost their highest hope. And then they slandered all high hopes.
 
 Then lived they shamelessly in temporary pleasures, and beyond the day had hardly an aim.
 
 "Spirit is also voluptuousness," - said they. Then broke the wings of their spirit; and now it creeps about, and defiles where it gnaws.
 
 Once they thought of becoming heroes; but sensualists are they now. A trouble and a terror is the hero to them.
 
 39 But by my love and hope I appeal to you: cast not away the hero in your soul!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
