"you shall not rob! you shall not slay!" - such precepts were once called holy; before them did one bow the knee and the head, and take off one's shoes.
 
 But I ask you: Where have there ever been better robbers and slayers in the world than such holy precepts?
 
 Is there not even in all life - robbing and slaying? And for such precepts to be called holy, was not truth itself thereby - slain?
 
 -Or was it a sermon of death that called holy what contradicted and dissuaded from life? - O my brothers, break up, break up for me the old tables!
 
 11.
 
 It is my sympathy with all the past that I see it is abandoned,-Abandoned to the favour, the spirit and the madness of every generation that comes, and reinterprets all that has been as its bridge!
 
 A great potentate might arise, an artful prodigy, who with approval and disapproval could strain and constrain all the past, until it became for him a bridge, a harbinger, a herald, and a cock-crowing.
 
 This however is the other danger, and my other sympathy: - he who is of the populace, his thoughts go back to his grandfather, - with his grandfather, however, does time cease.
 
 Thus is all the past abandoned: for it might some day happen for the populace to become master, and drown all time in shallow waters.
 
 Therefore, O my brothers, a new nobility is needed, which shall be the adversary of all populace and potentate rule, and shall inscribe anew the word "noble" on new tables.
 
 For many noble ones are needed, and many kinds of noble ones, for a new nobility! Or, as I once said in parable: "That is just divinity, that there are gods, but no God!" 12.
 
 O my brothers, I consecrate you and point you to a new nobility: you shall become procreators and cultivators and sowers of the future;-Truly, not to a nobility which you could purchase like traders with traders' gold; for little worth is all that has its price.
 
 Let it not be your honour henceforth whence you come, but where you go! Your Will and your feet which seek to surpass you - let these be your new honour!
 
 Truly, not that you have served a prince - of what account are princes now! - nor that you have become a bulwark to that which stands, that it may stand more firmly.
 
 160 Not that your family have become courtly at courts, and that you have learned - gay-coloured, like the flamingo - to stand long hours in shallow pools: (For ability-to-stand is a merit in courtiers; and all courtiers believe that to blessedness after death pertains - permission-to-sit!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
