to my children will I make amends for being the child of my fathers: and to all the future - for this present-day! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (15) IMMACULATE PERCEPTION WHEN yester-eve the moon arose, then did I fancy it about to bear a sun: so broad and teeming did it lie on the horizon.
 
 But it was a liar with its pregnancy; and sooner will I believe in the man in the moon than in the woman.
 
 To be sure, little of a man is he also, that timid night-reveller. Truly, with a bad conscience does he stalk over the roofs.
 
 For he is desirous and jealous, the monk in the moon; envious of the earth, and all the joys of lovers.
 
 No, I like him not, that tom-cat on the roofs! Hateful to me are all that slink around half-closed windows!
 
 Piously and silently does he stalk along on the star-carpets: - but I like no light-treading human feet, on which not even a spur jingles.
 
 Every honest one's step speaks; the cat however, steals along over the ground. Behold. cat-like does the moon come along, and dishonestly.This parable speak I to you sentimental dissemblers, to you, the "pure discerners!" You do I call - envious ones!
 
 Also you love the earth, and the earthly: I have divined you well! - but shame is in your love, and a bad conscience - you are like the moon!
 
 To despise the earthly has your spirit been persuaded, but not your bowels: these, however, are the strongest in you!
 
 And now is your spirit ashamed to be at the service of your bowels, and goes in by-ways and lying ways to escape its own shame.
 
 "That would be the highest thing for me" - so says your lying spirit to itself - "to gaze upon life without desire, and not like the dog, with hanging-out tongue: To be happy in gazing: with dead will, free from the grip and greed of selfishness - cold and ashy-grey all over, but with intoxicated moon-eyes!
 
 That would be the dearest thing to me" - thus does the seduced one seduce himself, - "to love the earth as the moon loves it, and with the eye only to feel its beauty.
 
 99 And this do I call immaculate perception of all things: to want nothing else from them, but to be allowed to lie before them as a mirror with a hundred facets.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
