"You old pope," said Zarathustra, stepping in, "did you really see that with your own eyes? It might have happened that way, or maybe in another way. When gods die, they always die in many different ways.

Well! Either way—he's gone! I didn’t like how he sounded or looked; I won’t say anything worse about him.

I love everything that looks bright and speaks honestly. But he—you know, old priest, he was a bit like you, the priest-type—he was confusing.

He was also unclear. He got angry at us, this angry guy, because we misunderstood him! But why didn’t he speak more clearly?

And if the problem was with our ears, why did he give us ears that couldn’t understand him? If our ears were dirty, who put the dirt there?

Too much went wrong with him, this potter who didn’t learn well! And it was bad taste that he got mad at his pots and creations because they didn’t turn out right.

There’s also good taste in being religious: this finally said, ‘Away with that kind of God! Better to have no God, better to make your own fate, better to be a fool, better to be God yourself!’"

"What am I hearing!" said the old pope, listening carefully. "Zarathustra, you’re more religious than you think, even with your unbelief.

Some part of a god in you has turned you into an unbeliever.

Isn’t your own faith the reason you can’t believe in a God anymore?

And your extreme honesty might even lead you beyond good and evil!

Look, you have eyes, hands, and a mouth meant forever for blessings. You don’t bless with just your hand alone.

Even though you say you don’t believe in God, I can smell a strong, holy feeling of blessings from you. It makes me both happy and sad.

Let me stay with you, Zarathustra, just one night! Nowhere else on earth would I feel better than with you!"

"Amen! So it will be!" said Zarathustra, very surprised. "The way up leads there, that’s where my cave is.

I’d gladly take you there myself, old man, because I love all religious people. But right now, a call for help is pulling me away.

No one will suffer in my place; my cave is a safe home.

And most of all, I want to help anyone who’s sad to stand strong again."
