Know you it not, O Zarathustra? I seek Zarathustra." -And here there arose a long silence between them: Zarathustra, however, became profoundly absorbed in thought, so that he shut his eyes. But afterwards coming back to the situation, he grasped the hand of the magician, and said, full of politeness and policy: "Well! Up there leads the way, there is the cave of Zarathustra. In it may you seek him whom you would rather find.
 
 And ask counsel of my animals, my eagle and my serpent: they shall help you to seek. My cave however is large.
 
 I myself, to be sure - I have as yet seen no great man. That which is great, the acutest eye is at present insensible to it. It is the kingdom of the populace.
 
 Many a one have I found who stretched and inflated himself, and the people cried: 'Behold; a great man!' But what good do all bellows do! The wind comes out at last.
 
 At last bursts the frog which has inflated itself too long: then comes out the wind. To prick a swollen one in the belly, I call good pastime. Hear that, you boys!
 
 Our today is of the popular: who still knows what is great and what is small! Who could there seek successfully for greatness! A fool only: it succeeds with fools.
 
 You seek for great men, you strange fool? Who taught that to you? Is today the time for it? Oh, you bad seeker, why do you - tempt me?" - Thus spoke Zarathustra, comforted in his heart, and went laughing on his way.
 
 Part 4, (6) OUT OF SERVICE NOT long, however, after Zarathustra had freed himself from the magician, he again saw a person sitting beside the path which he followed, namely a tall, black man, with a haggard, pale countenance: this man grieved him exceedingly. "Alas," said he to his heart, "there sits disguised affliction; methinks he is of the type of the priests: what do they want in my domain?
 
 What! Hardly have I escaped from that magician, and must another necromancer again run across my path,200 -Some sorcerer with laying-on-of-hands, some sombre wonder-worker by the grace of God, some anointed world-maligner, whom, may the devil take!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
