Did their ear perhaps listen yearningly-long for me in vain, and for my trumpet-notes and herald-calls?
 
 -Ah! Ever are there but few of those whose hearts have persistent courage and exuberance; and in such remains also the spirit patient. The rest, however, are cowardly.
 
 The rest: these are always the great majority, the common-place, the superfluous, the far-too many - those all are cowardly!Him who is of my type, will also the experiences of my type meet on the way: so that his first companions must be corpses and buffoons.
 
 His second companions, however - they will call themselves his believers, - will be a living host, with much love, much folly, much unbearded veneration.
 
 To those believers shall he who is of my type among men not bind his heart; in those spring-times and many-hued meadows shall he not believe, who knows the fickly faint-hearted human species!
 
 Could they do otherwise, then would they also will otherwise. The half-and-half spoil every whole. That leaves become withered, - what is there to lament about that!
 
 Let them go and fall away, O Zarathustra, and do not lament! Better even to blow among them with rustling winds,-Blow among those leaves, O Zarathustra, that everything withered may run away from you the faster! 2.
 
 "We have again become pious" - so do those apostates confess; and some of them are still too pusillanimous thus to confess.
 
 to them I look into the eye, - before them I say it to their face and to the blush on their cheeks: you are those who again pray!
 
 It is however a shame to pray! Not for all, but for you, and me, and whoever has his conscience in his head. For you it is a shame to pray!
 
 You know it well: the faint-hearted devil in you, which would rather fold its arms, and place its hands in its bosom, and take it easier: - this faint-hearted devil persuades you that "there is a God!" Thereby, however, do you belong to the light-dreading type, to whom light never permits repose: now must you daily thrust your head deeper into obscurity and vapour!
 
 And truly, you choose the hour well: for just now do the nocturnal birds again fly abroad. The hour has come for all light-dreading people, the vesper hour and leisure hour, when they do not - "take leisure." I hear it and smell it: it has come - their hour for hunt and procession, 143 not indeed for a wild hunt, but for a tame, lame, snuffling, soft-treaders', soft-prayers' hunt,-For a hunt after susceptible simpletons: all mouse-traps for the heart have again been set!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
