The small man returns eternally!" Naked had I once seen both of them, the greatest man and the smallest man: all too like one another - all too human, even the greatest man!
 
 All too small, even the greatest man! - that was my disgust at man!
 
 And the eternal return also of the smallest man! - that was my disgust at all existence!
 
 Ah, Disgust! Disgust! Disgust! - - Thus spoke Zarathustra, and sighed and shuddered; for he remembered his sickness. Then did his animals prevent him from speaking further.
 
 "Do not speak further, you convalescent!" - so answered his animals, "but go out where the world waits for you like a garden.
 
 Go out to the roses, the bees, and the flocks of doves! Especially, however, to the singing-birds, to learn singing from them!
 
 For singing is for the convalescent; the sound ones may talk. And when the sound also want songs, then want they other songs than the convalescent." -"O you wags and barrel-organs, do be silent!" answered Zarathustra, and smiled at his animals. "How well you know what consolation I devised for myself in seven days!
 
 That I have to sing once more - that consolation did I devise for myself, and this convalescence: would you also make another lyre-lay thereof?" -"Do not talk further," answered his animals once more; "rather, you convalescent, prepare for yourself first a lyre, a new lyre!
 
 For behold, O Zarathustra! For your new lays there are needed new lyres.
 
 Sing and bubble over, O Zarathustra, heal your soul with new lays: that you may bear your great fate, which has not yet been any one's fate!
 
 For your animals know it well, O Zarathustra, who you are and must become: behold, you are the teacher of the eternal return, - that is now your fate!
 
 That you must be the first to teach this teaching - how could this great fate not be your greatest danger and infirmity!
 
 Behold, we know what you teach: that all things eternally return, and ourselves with them, and that we have already existed times without number, and all things with us.
 
 You teach that there is a great year of Becoming, a prodigy of a great year; it must, like a sand-glass, ever turn up anew, that it may anew run down and run out:173 -So that all those years are like one another in the greatest and also in the smallest, so that we ourselves, in every great year, are like ourselves in the greatest and also in the smallest.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
