But although you should dance before me, and leap all your side-leaps, no one may say to me: 'Behold, here dances the last joyous man!' In vain would anyone come to this height who sought him here: caves would he find, indeed, and back-caves, hiding-places for hidden ones; but not lucky mines, nor treasure-chambers, nor new gold-veins of happiness.
 
 Happiness - how indeed could one find happiness among such buriedalive and solitary ones! Must I yet seek the last happiness on the Happy Isles, and far away among forgotten seas?
 
 But all is alike, nothing is worthwhile, no seeking is of service, there are no longer any Happy Isles!" - Thus sighed the soothsayer; with his last sigh, however, Zarathustra again became serene and assured, like one who has come out of a deep chasm into the light. "No! No! Three times No!" exclaimed he with a strong voice, and stroked his beard - "that do I know better! There are still Happy Isles! Silence thereon, you sighing sorrow-sack!
 
 Cease to splash thereon, you rain-cloud of the forenoon! Do I not already stand here wet with your misery, and drenched like a dog?
 
 Now do I shake myself and run away from you, that I may again become dry: thereat may you not wonder! Do I seem to you discourteous?
 
 Here however is my court.
 
 But as regards the higher man: well! I shall seek him at once in those forests: from thence came his cry. Perhaps he is there hard beset by an evil beast.
 
 He is in my domain: therein shall he receive no scathe! And truly, there are many evil beasts about me."With those words Zarathustra turned around to depart. Then said the soothsayer: "O Zarathustra, you are a rogue!
 
 I know it well: you would rather be rid of me! Rather would you run into the forest and lay snares for evil beasts!
 
 But what good will it do you? In the evening will you have me again: in your own cave will I sit, patient and heavy like a block - and wait for you!" "So be it!" shouted back Zarathustra, as he went away: "and what is my in my cave belongs also to you, my guest!
 
 Should you however find honey therein, well! Just lick it up, you growling bear, and sweeten your soul! For in the evening we want both to be in good spirits; -In good spirits and joyful, because this day has come to an end! And 188 you yourself shall dance to my lays, as my dancing-bear.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
