"But whatever are you about!" called out Zarathustra in alarm, for he saw a deal of blood streaming over the naked arm, - "what has hurt you?
 
 has an evil beast bit you, you unfortunate one?" The bleeding one laughed, still angry, "What matter is it to you!" said he, and was about to go on. "Here am I at home and in my province. Let him question me whoever will: to a dolt, however, I shall hardly answer." "you are mistaken," said Zarathustra sympathetically, and held him fast; "you are mistaken. Here you are not at home, but in my domain, and therein shall no one receive any hurt.
 
 Call me however what you wilt - I am who I must be. I call myself Zarathustra.
 
 Well! Up there is the way to Zarathustra's cave: it is not far, - will you not attend to your wounds at my home?
 
 It has gone badly with you, you unfortunate one, in this life: first a beast bit you, and then - a man trod upon you!" - When however the trodden one had heard the name of Zarathustra he was transformed. "What happens to me!" he exclaimed, "who preoccupies me so much in this life as this one man, namely Zarathustra, and that one animal that lives on blood, the leech?
 
 For the sake of the leech did I lie here by this swamp, like a fisher, and already had my outstretched arm been bitten ten times, when there bits a still finer leech at my blood, Zarathustra himself!
 
 O happiness! O miracle! Praised be this day which enticed me into the swamp! Praised be the best, the most live cupping-glass, that at present lives; praised be the great conscience-leech Zarathustra!"Thus spoke the trodden one, and Zarathustra rejoiced at his words and their refined reverential style. "Who are you?" asked he, and gave him his hand, "there is much to clear up and elucidate between us, but already methinks pure clear day is dawning." "I am the spiritually conscientious one," answered he who was asked, "and in matters of the spirit it is difficult for anyone to take it more rigorously, more restrictedly, and more severely than I, except him from whom I learnt it, Zarathustra himself.
 
 Better know nothing than half-know many things! Better be a fool on one's own account, than a sage on other people's approbation! I - go to the basis: -What matter if it be great or small? If it be called swamp or sky? A 193 handbreadth of basis is enough for me, if it be actually basis and ground!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
