yourself threw you so high, - but every thrown stone - must fall!
 
 Condemned of yourself, and to your own stoning: O Zarathustra, far indeed threw you your stone - but upon yourself will it recoil!" Then was the dwarf silent; and it lasted long. The silence, however, oppressed me; and to be thus in pairs, one is truly lonesomer than when alone!
 
 I ascended, I ascended, I dreamt, I thought, - but everything oppressed me. A sick one did I resemble, whom bad torture wearies, and a worse dream reawakens out of his first sleep.But there is something in me which I call courage: it has thus far slain for me every dejection. This courage at last bade me stand still and say: "Dwarf! You! Or I!"For courage is the best slayer, - courage which attacks: for in every attack there is sound of triumph.
 
 Man, however, is the most courageous animal: thereby has he overcome every animal. With sound of triumph has he overcome every pain; human pain, however, is the sorest pain.
 
 Courage slays also giddiness at abysses: and where does man not stand at abysses! Is not seeing itself - seeing abysses?
 
 Courage is the best slayer: courage slays also fellow-suffering. Fellowsuffering, however, is the deepest abyss: as deeply as man looks into life, so deeply also does he look into suffering.
 
 Courage, however, is the best slayer, courage which attacks: it slays even death itself; for it says: "Was that life? Well! Once more!" In such speech, however, there is much sound of triumph. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. 2.
 
 "Halt, dwarf!" said I. "Either I - or you! I, however, am the stronger of the two: - you know not my abysmal thought! It - could you not endure!" Then happened that which made me lighter: for the dwarf sprang from my shoulder, the prying sprite! And it squatted on a stone in front of me.
 
 There was however a gateway just where we halted.
 
 "Look at this gateway! Dwarf!" I continued, "it has two faces. Two roads come together here: these has no one yet gone to the end of.
 
 This long lane backwards: it continues for an eternity. And that long lane forward - that is another eternity.
 
 They are antithetical to one another, these roads; they directly abut on one another: - and it is here, at this gateway, that they come together.
 
 The name of the gateway is inscribed above: 'This Moment.' 125 But should one follow them further - and ever further and further on, think you, dwarf, that these roads would be eternally antithetical?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
