God is a conjecture: but I do not wish your conjecturing to reach beyond your creating will.
 
 Could you create a God? - Then, I pray you, be silent about all gods!
 
 But you could well create the overman.
 
 Not perhaps you yourselves, my brothers! But into fathers and forefathers of the overman could you transform yourselves: and let that be your best creating!God is a conjecture: but I should like your conjecturing restricted to the conceivable.
 
 Could you conceive a God? - But let this mean Will to Truth to you, that everything be transformed into the humanly conceivable, the humanly visible, the humanly sensible! Your own discernment shall you follow out to the end!
 
 And what you have called the world shall but be created by you: your reason, your likeness, your will, your love, shall it itself become! And truly, for your bliss, you discerning ones!
 
 And how would you endure life without that hope, you discerning ones? Neither in the inconceivable could you have been born, nor in the irrational.
 
 But that I may reveal my heart entirely to you, my friends: if there were gods, how could I endure it to be no God! Therefore there are no gods.
 
 Yes, I have drawn the conclusion; now, however, does it draw me.God is a conjecture: but who could drink all the bitterness of this conjecture without dying? Shall his faith be taken from the creating one, and from the eagle his flights into eagle-heights?
 
 God is a thought - it makes all the straight crooked, and all that stands reel. What? Time would be gone, and all the perishable would be but a lie?
 
 To think this is giddiness and vertigo to human limbs, and even vomiting to the stomach: truly, the reeling sickness do I call it, to conjecture such a thing.
 
 Evil do I call it and misanthropic: all that teaching about the one, and the plenum, and the unmoved, and the sufficient, and the imperishable!
 
 All the imperishable - that's but a simile, and the poets lie too much.But of time and of becoming shall the best similes speak: a praise shall they be, and a justification of all perishableness!
 
 Creating - that is the great salvation from suffering, and life's alleviation. But for the creator to appear, suffering itself is needed, and much 70 transformation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
