And behold, thereby came he unawares also to the gate of the great city.
 
 Here, however, a foaming fool, with extended hands, sprang forward to him and stood in his way. It was the same fool whom the people called "the ape of Zarathustra:" for he had learned from him something of the expression and modulation of language, and perhaps liked also to borrow from the store of his wisdom. And the fool talked thus to Zarathustra: O Zarathustra, here is the great city: here have you nothing to seek and everything to lose.
 
 Why would you wade through this mire? Have pity upon your foot!
 
 Spit rather on the gate of the city, and - turn back!
 
 Here is the hell for anchorites' thoughts: here are great thoughts seethed alive and boiled small.
 
 Here do all great sentiments decay: here may only rattle-boned sensations rattle!
 
 Smell you not already the shambles and cookshops of the spirit?
 
 Steams not this city with the fumes of slaughtered spirit?
 
 See you not the souls hanging like limp dirty rags? - And they make newspapers also out of these rags!
 
 Hear you not how spirit has here become a verbal game? Loathsome verbal swill does it vomit forth! - And they make newspapers also out of this verbal swill.
 
 They hound one another, and know not where! They inflame one another, and know not why! They tinkle with their pinchbeck, they jingle with their gold.
 
 They are cold, and seek warmth from distilled waters: they are inflamed, and seek coolness from frozen spirits; they are all sick and sore through public opinion.
 
 All lusts and vices are here at home; but here there are also the virtuous; there is much appointable appointed virtue:Much appointable virtue with scribe-fingers, and hardy sitting-flesh and waiting-flesh, blessed with small breast-stars, and padded, haunchless daughters.
 
 There is here also much piety, and much faithful spittle-licking and spittle-backing, before the God of Hosts.
 
 "From on high," drips the star, and the gracious spittle; for the high, 140 longs every starless bosom.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
