Woe says: "Break, bleed, you heart! Wander, you leg! you wing, fly!
 
 Onward! upward! you pain!" Well! Cheer up! O my old heart: Woe says: "Hence! Go!" 10.
 
 You higher men, what think you? Am I a soothsayer? Or a dreamer? Or a drunkard? Or a dream-reader? Or a midnight-bell?
 
 Or a drop of dew? Or a fume and fragrance of eternity? Hear you it not? Smell you it not? Just now has my world become perfect, midnight is also mid-day,Pain is also a joy, curse is also a blessing, night is also a sun, - go away!
 
 or you will learn that a sage is also a fool.
 
 Said you ever yes to one joy? O my friends, then said you yes also to all woe. All things are enlinked, enlaced and enamoured,-Wanted you ever once to come twice; said you ever: "you please me, happiness! Instant! Moment!" then wanted you all to come back again!
 
 -All anew, all eternal, all enlinked, enlaced and enamoured, Oh, then did you love the world,-You eternal ones, you love it eternally and for all time: and also to woe do you say: Hence! Go! but come back! For joys all want - eternity!
 
 11.
 
 All joy wants the eternity of all things, it wants honey, it wants lees, it wants drunken midnight, it wants graves, it wants grave-tears' consolation, it wants gilded evening-red-What does not joy want! it is thirstier, heartier, hungrier, more frightful, more mysterious, than all woe: it wants itself, it bits into itself, the ring's will writhes in it,-It wants love, it wants hate, it is over-rich, it bestows, it throws away, it begs for someone to take from it, it thanks the taker, it would rather be hated,-So rich is joy that it thirsts for woe, for hell, for hate, for shame, for the lame, for the world, - for this world, Oh, you know it indeed!
 
 You higher men, for you does it long, this joy, this irrepressible, blessed joy - for your woe, you failures! For failures, longs all eternal joy.
 
 For joys all want themselves, therefore do they also want grief! O happiness, O pain! Oh break, you heart! you higher men, do learn it, that joys want eternity.
 
 -Joys want the eternity of all things, they want deep, profound eternity!
 
 251 12.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
