Now, however, do I lie here, still exhausted with that biting and spitting-away, still sick with my own salvation.
 
 And you looked on at it all? O my animals, are you also cruel? Did you like to look at my great pain as men do? For man is the cruellest animal.
 
 At tragedies, bull-fights, and crucifixions has he thus far been happiest on earth; and when he invented his hell, behold, that was his heaven on earth.
 
 When the great man cries-: immediately runs the little man there, and his tongue hangs out of his mouth for very lusting. He, however, calls it his "pity." The little man, especially the poet - how passionately does he accuse life in words! Listen to him, but do not fail to hear the delight which is in all accusation!
 
 Such accusers of life - them life overcomes with a glance of the eye.
 
 "you lovest me?" says the insolent one; "wait a little, as yet have I no time for you." Towards himself man is the cruellest animal; and in all who call themselves "sinners" and "bearers of the cross" and "penitents," do not overlook the voluptuousness in their plaints and accusations!
 
 And I myself - do, I thereby want to be man's accuser? Ah, my animals, this only have I learned thus far, that for man his most bad is necessary for his best,-That all that is most bad is the best power, and the hardest stone for the highest creator; and that man must become better and more bad:Not to this torture-stake was I tied, that I know man is bad, - but I cried, as no one has yet cried: "Ah, that his most bad is so very small! Ah, that his best is so very small!" The great disgust at man - it strangled me and had crept into my throat: and what the soothsayer had presaged: "All is alike, nothing is worthwhile, knowledge strangles." A long twilight limped on before me, a fatally weary, fatally intoxicated sadness, which spoke with yawning mouth.
 
 "Eternally he returns, the man of whom you are weary, the small man" - so yawned my sadness, and dragged its foot and could not go to sleep.
 
 A cavern, became the human earth to me; its breast caved in; everything living became to me human dust and bones and mouldering past.
 
 My sighing sat on all human graves, and could no longer arise: my 172 sighing and questioning croaked and choked, and gnawed and nagged day and night: -"Ah, man returns eternally!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
