" Man himself is to the discerning one: the animal with red cheeks.
 
 How has that happened to him? Is it not because he has had to be ashamed too oft?
 
 O my friends! Thus speaks the discerning one: shame, shame, shame that is the history of man!
 
 And on that account does the noble one enjoin on himself not to abash: bashfulness does he enjoin himself in presence of all sufferers.
 
 Truly, I like them not, the merciful ones, whose bliss is in their pity: too destitute are they of bashfulness.
 
 If I must be pitiful, I dislike to be called so; and if I be so, it is preferably at a distance.
 
 Preferably also do I shroud my head, and flee, before being recognized: and thus do I bid you do, my friends!
 
 May my destiny ever lead unafflicted ones like you across my path, and those with whom I may have hope and repast and honey in common!
 
 Truly, I have done this and that for the afflicted: but something better did I always seem to do when I had learned to enjoy myself better.
 
 Since humanity came into being, man has enjoyed himself too little: that alone, my brothers, is our original sin!
 
 And when we learn better to enjoy ourselves, then do we unlearn best to give pain to others, and to contrive pain.
 
 Therefore do I wash the hand that has helped the sufferer; therefore do I wipe also my soul.
 
 For in seeing the sufferer suffering - thereof was I ashamed on account of his shame; and in helping him, sorely did I wound his pride.
 
 Great obligations do not make grateful, but revengeful; and when a small kindness is not forgotten, it becomes a gnawing worm.
 
 "Be shy in accepting! Distinguish by accepting!" - thus do I advise those who have naught to bestow.
 
 I, however, am a bestower: willingly do I bestow as friend to friends.
 
 Strangers, however, and the poor, may pluck for themselves the fruit from my tree: thus does it cause less shame.
 
 Beggars, however, one should entirely do away with! Truly, it annoys one to give to them, and it annoys one not to give to them.
 
 And likewise sinners and bad consciences! Believe me, my friends: the sting of conscience teaches one to sting.
 
 The worst things, however, are the petty thoughts. Truly, better to have 72 done evilly than to have thought pettily!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
