Yes, much bitter dying must there be in your life, you creators! Thus are you advocates and justifiers of all perishableness.
 
 For the creator himself to be the new-born child, he must also be willing to be the child-bearer, and endure the pangs of the child-bearer.
 
 Truly, through a hundred souls went I my way, and through a hundred cradles and birth-throes. Many a farewell have I taken; I know the heart-breaking last hours.
 
 But so wills it my creating Will, my fate. Or, to tell you it more candidly: just such a fate - wills my Will.
 
 All feeling suffers in me, and is in prison: but my willing ever comes to me as my emancipator and comforter.
 
 Willing emancipates: that is the true doctrine of will and emancipation - so teaches you Zarathustra.
 
 No longer willing, and no longer valuing, and no longer creating! Ah, that that great debility may ever be far from me!
 
 And also in discerning do I feel only my will's procreating and evolving delight; and if there be innocence in my knowledge, it is because there is will to procreation in it.
 
 Away from God and gods did this will allure me; what would there be to create if there were - gods!
 
 But to man does it ever impel me anew, my fervent creative will; thus impels it the hammer to the stone.
 
 Ah, you men, within the stone slumbers an image for me, the image of my visions! Ah, that it should slumber in the hardest, ugliest stone!
 
 Now rags my hammer ruthlessly against its prison. From the stone fly the fragments: what's that to me?
 
 I will complete it: for a shadow came to me - the stillest and lightest of all things once came to me!
 
 The beauty of the overman came to me as a shadow. Ah, my brothers!
 
 Of what account now are - the gods to me! Thus spoke Zarathustra.
 
 Part 2, (3) THE PITIFUL MY FRIENDS, there has arisen a satire on your friend: "Behold Zarathustra! Walks he not among us as if among animals?" 71 But it is better said in this wise: "The discerning one walks among men as among animals.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
