FACE TO FACE WITH AHIMSA My object was to inquire into the condition of the Champaran agriculturists and understand their grievances against the indigo planters. For this purpose it was necessary that I should meet thousands of the ryots. But I deemed it essential, before starting on my inquiry, to know the planters' side of the case and see the Commissioner of the Division. I sought and was granted appointments with both.
 
 The Secretary of the Planters' Association told me that I was an outsider and that I had no business to come between the planters and their tenants, but if I had any representation to make, I might submit it in writing. I politely told him that I did not regard myself as an outsider, and that I had every right to inquire into the condition of the tenants if they desired me to do so.
 
 The Commissioner, on whom I called, proceeded to bully me, and advised me forthwith to leave Tirhut.
 
 I acquainted my co-workers with all this, and told them that there was a likelihood of Government stopping me from proceeding further, and that, if I was to be arrested, it would be best that the arrest should take place in Motihari or if possible in Bettiah. It was advisable, therefore, that I should go to those places as early as possible.
 
 Champaran is a district of the Tirhut division and Motihari is its headquarters.
 
 Rajkumar Shukla's place was in the vicinity of Bettiah, and the tenants belonging to the kothis in its neighbourhood were the poorest in the district.
 
 Rajkumar Shukla wanted me to see them and I was equally anxious to do so.
 
 So I started with my co-workers for Motihari the same day. Babu Gorakh Prasad harboured us in his home, which became a caravanserai. It could hardly contain us all. The very same day we heard that about five miles from Motihari a tenant had been ill-treated. It was decided that, in company with Babu Dharanidhar Prasad, I should go and see him the next morning, and we accordingly set off for the place on elephant's back. An elephant, by the way, www.mkgandhi.org Page 457 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth is about as common in Champaran as a bullock-cart in Gujarat.
 
