Gandhiji was not only a great national leader who liberated India from foreign domination through a peaceful and bloodless struggle, but also a profound thinker who placed before the world certain eternal principles for the guidance of human relationship and international behaviour. He laid the greatest stress on the purity of the means for the achievement of noble ends. “The means may be likened to a seed, the end to a tree; and there is just the same inviolable connection between the means and the end as there is between the seed and the tree.” 1 The Mahatma never compromised his adherence to this ideal even for the attainment of Swaraj for India. He was convinced beyond any shadow of doubt that this method of righteousness was, “ultimately, the shortest, although it may appear to be long, perhaps too long.” 2 To Gandhiji, civilization, in the real sense of the term, consisted “not in the multiplication, but in the deliberate and voluntary restriction of wants.” 3 He always upheld the sublime aim of “simple living and high thinking”. While he strained every nerve to provide gainful employment to the hungry millions of India through various constructive activities, he underscored the imperative need for raising the ‘standard of life’ of the people, including the ethical and moral aspects. To him mere affluence and accumulation of material wealth was ‘a primrose path’ leading to social, economic and cultural disintegration. “True economics,” affirmed Gandhiji, “never militates against the highest ethical standard.” “An economics that inculcates Mammon worship, and enables the strong to amass wealth at the expense of the weak, is a false and dismal science.” 4 At a time when a number of developed countries are faced with this ‘tragedy of mere affluence’ it would be worth our while recollecting Mahatma Gandhi’s insistence on higher values for the establishment of a new world order. As a recent editorial in the New Statesman captioned ‘Not By Bread www.mkgandhi.org Page 2 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth Alone’ stated, “there is evidently a hunger in the world for governments which are activated by moral principles, which take decisions not because they are expedient, but because they are right.
 
