” 5 There is an erroneous notion that Gandhiji was against the use of modern science and technology and favoured out-dated technniques for some spiritual or sentimental reasons. “I would price every invention made for the benefit of all,” remarked Gandhiji. “Mechanisation is good when the hands are too few for the work intended to be accomplished. It is an evil when there are more hands than required for the work, as is the case in India.” 6 Gandhiji was, thus, not against machinery as such, but objected to the ‘craze’ for machinery and its ‘indiscriminate multiplication’. In place of ‘mass production’ he advocated a system of ‘production by the masses’. He clearly envisaged that in a developing country like India, with scarce capital and abundant labour, the physical energies of the masses could be converted into a vast constructive force under a democratic frame-work, which Professor Mumford, in a somewhat different context, terms a ‘megamachine’. 7 We have to realize without equivocation that the pursuit of material prosperity alone would land us into a blind alley. The modern industrial organisation has given birth to a few giant business corporations which tend to reduce the State to a subservient position and bind it to, what Professor Galbraith calls, a Techno-structure, consisting of specialists, planners and technicians. In order to avoid the perils of such an industrial system, the American economist recommends the strong assertion of ‘other goals’, so that the new Industrial State would become “responsive to the larger purposes of the society”.8 These ‘goals’ could, doubtless, be essentially human and spiritual in accordance with Gandhiji’s ideals and programmes.
 
 Mahatma Gandhi was deeply concerned with the welfare of the ‘unprivileged’ classes in India as well as in other countries. While striving to promote the good of all in a Sarvodayal society, he directed his first care and attention to the needs of the poorest and the lowliest. Ruskin’s maxim of Unto This Last was a source of deep inspiration for his life and work. It was this human approach www.mkgandhi.org Page 3 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth which made Gandhiji an uncompromising crusader against racialism and colonialism.
 
