THE ROWLATT BILLS AND MY DILEMMA Friends and doctors assured me that I should recuperate quicker by a change to Matheran, so I went there. But the water at Matheran being very hard, it made my stay there extremely difficult. As a result of the attack of the dysentery that I had, my anal tract had become extremely tender, and owing to fissures, I felt an excruciating pain at the time of evacuation, so that the very idea of eating filled me with dread. Before the week was over, I had to flee from Matheran. Shankarlal Banker now constituted himself the guardian of my health, and pressed me to consult Dr. Dalal. Dr. Dalal was called accordingly. His capacity for taking instantaneous decisions captured me.
 
 He said: 'I cannot rebuild your body unless you take milk. If in addition you would take iron and arsenic injections, I would guarantee fully to renovate your constitution.' 'You can give me the injections,' I replied, 'but milk is a different question; I have a vow against it.' 'What exactly is the nature of your vow?' the doctor inquired.
 
 I told him the whole history and the reasons behind my vow, how, since I had come to know that the cow and the buffalo were subjected to the process of phooka, I had conceived a strong disgust for milk. Moreover, I had always held that milk is not the natural diet of man. I had therefore abjured its use altogether. Kasturbai was standing near my bed listening all the time to this conversation.
 
 'But surely you cannot have any objection to goat's milk then,' she interposed.
 
 The doctor too took up the strain. 'If you will take goat's milk, it will be enough for me,' he said.
 
 I succumbed. My intense eagerness to take up the Satyagraha fight had created in me a strong desire to live, and so I contented myself with adhering to the letter of my vow only, and sacrificed its spirit. For although I had only the milk www.mkgandhi.org Page 503 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth of the cow and the she-buffalo in mind when I took the vow, by natural implication it covered the milk of all animals.
 
