EUROPEAN CONTACTS (CONTD.) In Johannesburg I had at one time as many as four Indian clerks, who were perhaps more like my sons than clerks. But even these were not enough for my work. It was impossible to do without typewriting, which, among us, if at all, only I knew. I taught it to two of the clerks, but they never came up to the mark because of their poor English. And then one of these I wanted to train as an accountant. I could not get anyone from Natal, for nobody could enter the Transvaal without a permit, and for my own personal convenience I was not prepared to ask a favour of the Permit Officer.
 
 I was at my wits' end. Arrears were fast mounting up, so much so that it seemed impossible for me, however much I might try, to cope with professional and public work. I was quite willing to engage a European clerk, but I was not sure to get a white man or woman to serve a coloured man like myself.
 
 However I decided to try. I approached a type-writers’ agent whom I knew, and asked him to get me a stenographer. There were girls available, and he promised to try to secure the services of one. He came across a Scotch girl called Miss Dick, who had just come fresh from Scotland. She had no objection to earning an honest livelihood, wherever available, and she was in need. So the agent sent her on to me. She immediately prepossessed me.
 
 'Don't you mind serving under an Indian?' I asked her.
 
 'Not at all,' was her firm reply.
 
 'What salary do you expect?' 'Would £ 17/ 10s be too much?' 'Not too much if you will give me the work I want from you. When can you join?' 'This moment, if you wish.' I was very pleased and straightaway started dictating letters to her.
 
 Before very long she became more a daughter or a sister to me than a mere stenotypist. I had scarcely any reason to find fault with her work. She was www.mkgandhi.org Page 317 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth often entrusted with the management of funds amounting to thousands of pounds, and she was in charge of account books.
 
