People did come, but hardly one or two actually signed up as recruits. 'You believe in non-violence, so how can you ask us to take up weapons?' 'What good has the Government done for India to deserve our help?' These and similar questions were often asked.

However, our steady effort started to make a difference. Quite a few people registered, and we hoped to have a regular group ready once the first batch was sent. I had already begun talking with the Commissioner about where the recruits would stay.

The Commissioners in every area were holding meetings like the one in Delhi. One such meeting happened in Gujarat. My coworkers and I were invited.

We went, but I felt even more out of place here than in Delhi. In this atmosphere where everyone acted very submissive, I felt uncomfortable. I spoke at length. I couldn’t say anything the officials liked, and I did have a few strong criticisms.

I used to hand out leaflets asking people to join as recruits. One argument I used upset the Commissioner: 'One of the worst things about British rule in India is the law that stops the whole nation from having weapons. If we want that law removed and to learn how to use arms, this is a great chance. If the middle class helps the Government now, their distrust will go away, and the ban on weapons will be lifted.' The Commissioner mentioned this and said he appreciated me being at the meeting despite our disagreements. I had to explain my views as politely as I could.

Here is the letter to the Viceroy mentioned earlier: ‘As you know, after thinking carefully, I told Your Excellency I could not attend the Conference for the reasons I wrote in my April 26th letter, but after the interview you kindly gave me, I decided to join it, if only because I have great respect for you. One of my main reasons for not wanting to come was that important leaders like Lokamanya Tilak, Mrs. Besant, and the Ali Brothers—who I see as some of the strongest public opinion leaders—were not invited to the Conference.’
