He gave us an unfailing ‘talisman’ for right action: “Whenever you are in doubt, or when the self becomes too much with you, apply the following test: Recall the face of the poorest and the weakest man whom you may have seen, and ask yourself if the step you contemplate is going to be of any use to him…. Then you will find your doubts and self melting away.” 9 Gandhiji was a firm believer in the democratic way of life. He maintained that true democracy could be evolved only through non-violence and spontaneous cooperation. “The spirit of democracy cannot be imposed from without; it has to come from within.”10 He envisioned a ‘world federation’ raised on the foundations of integrity and mutual respect in international affairs. While he laboured ceaselessly for India’s freedom and renaissance, he was averse to ‘isolated independence’. He wanted each nation to imbibe the good qualities of others, without losing her own soul or genius. To quote his own classical expression, “I do not want my house to be walled in or all sides and my windows to be stuffed; I want the cultures of all the lands to be blown about my house as freely as possible; but I refuse to be blown off my feet by any.”11 It is, therefore, quite appropriate that we should suitably celebrate the birth centenary of one who had lived every minute of his life for the good of mankind, and had highlighted some basic prinicples as guide lines for humanity.
 
 In the inimitable words of Pandit Nehru, “the light that has illumined this country for these many years, will illumine this country for many more years, and a thousand years later, that light will still be seen in this country and the world will see it, and it will give solace to innumerable hearts.” “For, that light represented something more than the immediate present; it represented the living, eternal truths, reminding us of the right path, drawing us from the error.” 12 And as Dr. Albert Einstein had feelingly observed, “generations to come, it may be, will scarce believe that such a one as this ever, in flesh and blood, walked upon this earth.” As a part of the Gandhi Centenary celebrations, the Navajivan Trust, which was founded by Mahatma Gandhi himself half a century ago, has decided to publish www.mkgandhi.org Page 4 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth The Selected Works of Mahatma Gandhi in five volumes, so that the message of truth and compassion could be conveyed once again to millions of people in India and abroad.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
