What am I before you? You have grown grey in the service of the Congress, and are as an elder to me. I am but an inexperienced youth. You have put me under a debt of obligation by entrusting me with this work. For I want to do Congress work, and you have given me the rare opportunity of understanding the details.' 'To tell you the truth,' said Sjt. Ghosal, 'that is the proper spirit. But young men of today do not realize it. Of course I have known the Congress since its birth.
 
 In fact I may claim a certain share with Mr. Hume in bringing the Congress into being.' And thus we became good friends. He insisted on my having lunch with him.
 
 Sjt. Ghosal used to get his shirt buttoned by his bearer. I volunteered to do the bearer's duty, and I loved to do it, as my regard for elders was always great.
 
 When he came to know this, he did not mind my doing little acts of personal service for him. In fact he was delighted. Asking me to button his shirt, he would say, 'You see, now, the Congress secretary has no time even to button his shirt. He has always some work to do.' Sjt. Ghosal's naiveté amused me, but did not create any dislike in me for service of that nature. The benefit I received from this service in incalculable.
 
 In a few days I came to know the working of the Congress. I met most of the leaders, I observed the movements of stalwarts like Gokhale and Surendranath.
 
 I also noticed the huge waste of time there. I observed too, with sorrow even then, the prominent place that the English language occupied in our affairs.
 
 There was little regard for economy of energy. More than one did the work of one, and many an important thing was no one's business at all.
 
 Critical as my mind was in observing these things, there was enough charity in me, and so I always thought that it might, after all, be impossible to do better in the circumstances, and that saved me from undervaluing any work.
 
 www.mkgandhi.org Page 256 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth 15.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
