COMPANIONS Brajkishorebabu and Rajendrababu were a matchless pair. Their devotion made it impossible for me to take a single step without their help. Their disciples, or their companions – Shambhubabu, Anugrahababu, Dharanibabu, Ramnavmibabu and other vakils – were always with us. Vindhyababu and Janakdharibabu also came and helped us now and then. All these were Biharis.
 
 Their principal work was to take down the ryots' statements.
 
 Professor Kripalani could not but cast in his lot with us. Though a Sindhi he was more Bihari than a born Bihari. I have seen only a few workers capable of merging themselves in the province of their adoption. Kripalani is one of those few. He made it impossible for anyone to feel that he belonged to a different province. He was my gate-keeper in chief. For the time being he made it the end and aim of his life to save me from darskan-seekers. He warded off people, calling to his aid now his unfailing humour, now his non-violent threats. At nightfall he would take up his occupation of a teacher and regale his companions with his historical studies and observations, and quicken any timid visitor into bravery.
 
 Maulana Mazharul Haq had registered his name on the standing list of helpers whom I might count upon whenever necessary, and he made a point of looking in once or twice a month. The pomp and splendour in which he then lived was in sharp contrast to his simple life of today. The way in which he associated with us made us feel that he was one of us, though his fashionable habit gave a stranger a different impression.
 
 As I gained more experience of Bihar, I became convinced that work of a permanent nature was impossible without proper village education. The ryots' ignorance was pathetic. They either allowed their children to roam about, or made them toil on indigo plantations from morning to night for a couple of coppers a day. In those days a male labourers’ wage did not exceed ten pice, a www.mkgandhi.org Page 466 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth female's did not exceed six, and a child's three.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
