What right had I thus to clip their wings? Why should I have come in the way of their taking degrees and choosing their own careers?
 
 I do not think that there is much point in these questions. I have come in contact with numerous students. I have tried myself or through others to impose my educational 'fads' on other children too and have seen the results thereof. There are within my knowledge a number of young men today contemporaneous with my sons. I do not think that man to man they are any better that my sons, or that my sons have much to learn from them.
 
 But the ultimate result of my experiments is in the womb of the future. My object in discussing this subject here is that a student of the history of civilization may have some measure of the difference between disciplined home education and school education, and also of the effect produced on children through changes introduced by parents in their lives. The purpose of this chapter is also to show the lengths to which a votary of truth is driven by his experiments with truth, as also to show the votary of liberty how many are the sacrifices demanded by that stern goddess. Had I been without a sense of self-respect and satisfied myself with having for my children the education that other children could not get, I should have deprived them of the object-lesson in liberty and self-respect that I gave them at the cost of the literary training.
 
 And where a choice has to be made between liberty and learning who will not say that the former has to be preferred a thousand times to the latter?
 
 The youths whom I called out in 1920 from those citadels of slavery – their schools and colleges – and whom I advised that it was far better to remain unlettered and break stones for the sake of liberty than to go in for a literary education in the chains of slaves will probably be able now to trace my advice to its source.
 
 www.mkgandhi.org Page 230 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth 6.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
