With all these advantages he had one disadvantage – he was by nature suspicious.
 
 He was proud of Islam and loved to discourse on Islamic philosophy. Though he did not know Arabic, his acquaintance with the Holy Koran and Islamic literature in general was fairly good. Illustrations he had in plenty, always ready at hand. Contact with him gave me a fair amount of practical knowledge of Islam. When we came closer to each other, we had long discussions on religious topics.
 
 On the second or third day of my arrival, he took me to see the Durban court.
 
 There he introduced me to several people and seated me next to his attorney.
 
 The Magistrate kept staring at me and finally asked me to take off my turban.
 
 This I refused to do and left the court.
 
 So here too there was fighting in store for me.
 
 Abdulla Sheth explained to me why some Indians were required to take off their turbans. Those wearing the Musalman costume might, he said, keep their turbans on, but the other Indians on entering a court had to take theirs off as a rule.
 
 I must enter into some details to make this nice distinction intelligible. In the course of these two or three days I could see that the Indians were divided into different groups. One was that of Musalman merchants, who would call themselves 'Arabs'. Another was that of Hindu, and yet another of Parsi, clerks.
 
 The Hindu clerks were neither here nor there, unless they cast in their lot with the 'Arabs'. The Parsi clerks would call themselves Persians. These three classes had some social relations with one another. But by far the largest class was that composed of Tamil, Telugu and North Indian indentured and freed labourers. The indentured labourers were those who went to Natal on an agreement to serve for five years, and came to be known there as girmitiyas from girmit, which was the corrupt form of the English word 'agreement'. The other three classes had none but business relations with this class. Englishmen called them' coolies' and as the majority of Indians belonged to the labouring class, all Indians were called 'coolies,' or 'samis'. Sami is a www.mkgandhi.org Page 130 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth Tamil suffix occurring after many Tamil names, and it is nothing else than the Samskrit Swami, meaning a master.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
