LORD CURZON'S DURBAR The Congress was over, but as I had to meet the Chamber of Commerce and various people in connection with work in South Africa, I stayed in Calcutta for a month. Rather than stay this time in a hotel, I arranged to get the required introduction for a room in the India Club. Among its members were some prominent Indians, and I looked forward to getting into touch with them and interesting them in the work in South Africa. Gokhale frequently went to this Club to play billiards, and when he knew that I was to stay in Calcutta for some time, he invited me to stay with him. I thankfully accepted the invitation, but did not think it proper to go there by myself. He waited for a day or two and then took me personally. He discovered my reserve and said: 'Gandhi, you have to stay in the country, and this sort of reserve will not do. You must get into touch with as many people as possible. I want you to do Congress work.' I shall record here an incident in the India Club, before I proceed to talk of my stay with Gokhale.
 
 Lord Curzon held his durbar about this time. Some Rajas and Maharajas who had been invited to the durbar were members of the Club. In the Club I always found them wearing fine Bengali dhotis and shirts and scarves. On the durbar day they put on trousers befitting khansamas1 and shining boots. I was pained and inquired of one of them the reason for the change.
 
 'We alone know our unfortunate condition. We alone know the insults we have to put up with, in order that we may possess our wealth and titles,' he replied.
 
 'But what about these khansama turbans and these shining boots?' I asked.
 
 'Do you see any difference between khansamas and us?' he replied, and added, 'they are our khansamas, we are Lord Cruzon's khansamas. If I were to absent myself from the levée, I should have to suffer the consequences. If I were to attend it in my usual dress, it would be an offence. And do you think I am going to get any opportunity there of talking to Lord Curzon? Not a bit of it!' I was moved to pity for this plain-spoken friend.
 
 www.mkgandhi.org Page 260 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth This reminds me of another durbar.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
