How will the confession made before me avail you?' I replied gently.
 
 'Of course I will do just as you advise, but will you not consult with my old counsel Mr. _____? He is a friend too,' said Parsi Rustomji.
 
 Inquiry revealed that the smuggling had been going on for a long time, but the actual offence detected involved a trifling sum. We went to his counsel. He perused the papers, and said: 'The case will be tried by a jury, and a Natal jury will be the last to acquit an Indian. But I will not give up hope.' I did not know this counsel intimately. Parsi Rustomji intercepted: 'I thank you, but I should like to be guided by Mr. Gandhi's advice in this case. He knows me intimately. Of course you will advise him whenever necessary.' Having thus shelved the counsel's question, we went to Parsi Rustomji's shop.
 
 And now explaining my view I said to him: 'I don't think this case should be taken to court at all. It rests with the Customs Officer to prosecute you or to let you go, and he in turn will have to be guided by the Attorney General. I am prepared to meet both. I propose that you should offer to pay the penalty they fix, and the odds are that they will be agreeable. But if they are not, you must be prepared to go to jail. I am of opinion that the shame lies not so much in going to jail as in committing the offence. The deed of shame has already been done. Imprisonment you should regard as a penance. The real penance lies in resolving never to smuggle again.' I cannot say that Parsi Rustomji took all this quite well. He was a brave man, but his courage failed him for the moment. His name and fame were at stake, and where would he be if the edifice he had reared with such care and labour should go to pieces?
 
 'Well, I have told you,' he said, 'that I am entirely in your hands. You may do just as you like.' I brought to bear on this case all my powers of persuasion. I met the Customs Officer and fearlessly apprised him of the whole affair. I also promised to place www.mkgandhi.org Page 416 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth all the books at his disposal and told him how penitent Parsi Rustomji was feeling.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
