So I went there one day.
 
 Justice Mitter's house was in the same locality, and I therefore went to the temple on the same day that I visited him. On the way I saw a stream of sheep going to be sacrificed to Kali. Rows of beggars lined the lane leading to the temple. There were religious mendicants too, and even in those days I was sternly opposed to giving alms to sturdy beggars. A crowd of them pursued me.
 
 One of such men was found seated on a verandah. He stopped me, and accosted me: 'Whither are you going, my boy?' I replied to him.
 
 He asked my companion and me to sit down, which we did.
 
 I asked him: 'Do you regard this sacrifice as religion?' 'Who would regard killing of animals as religion?' 'Then, why don't you preach against it?' 'That's not my business. Our business is to worship God.' 'But could you not find any other place in which to worship God?' 'All places are equally good for us. The people are like a flock of sheep, following where leaders lead them. It is no business of us sadhus.' We did not prolong the discussion but passed on to the temple. We were greeted by rivers of blood. I could not bear to stand there. I was exasperated and restless. I have never forgotten that sight.
 
 That very evening I had an invitation to dinner at a party of Bengali friends.
 
 There I spoke to a friend about this cruel form of worship. He said: 'The sheep don't feel anything. The noise and the drum-beating there deaden all sensation of pain.' I could not swallow this. I told him that, if the sheep had speech, they would tell a different tale. I felt that the cruel custom ought to be stopped. I thought of the story of Buddha, but I also saw that the task was beyond my capacity.
 
 I hold today the same opinion as I held then. To my mind the life of a lamb is no less precious than that of a human being. I should be unwilling to take the www.mkgandhi.org Page 266 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth life of a lamb for the sake of the human body.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
