I can’t remember if it was the same friend or someone else who told me to meet Mr. Frederick Pincutt. He was a Conservative, but he really cared about Indian students in a genuine way. Lots of students asked him for advice, and I did too. He agreed to meet me. I’ll never forget that meeting. He welcomed me like a friend and made me feel better about my worries. He said, “Do you think everyone has to be a Pherozeshah Mehta? People like Pherozeshah and Badruddin are rare. You don’t need any special skill to be a normal lawyer. Just being honest and hardworking is enough to make a living. Not all cases are complicated. Now, tell me how much you have read.” When I told him about my small amount of reading, he looked a bit disappointed, but only for a moment. Then he smiled and said, “I see your problem. You haven’t read much, and you don’t know about the world, which is very important for a lawyer. You haven’t even read Indian history. A lawyer should understand people and be able to read their character from their face. Every Indian should know Indian history. This isn’t directly related to law, but it’s important knowledge. I see you haven’t read Kaye’s or Malleson’s history of the 1857 Mutiny. Get those books right away, and also read two more books to learn about human nature.” These were Lavator’s and Shemmelpennick’s books about reading faces.

I was really thankful to this kind old man. When I was with him, I felt no fear, but as soon as I left, I started worrying again. “How do you know a person just by looking at their face?” I wondered, thinking about the two books on my way home. The next day, I bought Lavator’s book. Shemmelpennick’s wasn’t available in the shop. I read Lavator’s book and found it harder than Snell’s Equity, and not very interesting. I also tried to study Shakespeare’s face, but I didn’t learn how to recognize Shakespeare walking down the streets of London.

Lavator’s book didn’t really teach me much. Mr. Pincutt’s advice didn’t help me directly, but his kindness stayed with me. I remembered his friendly, smiling face and believed what he said—that you don’t need Pherozeshah Mehta’s sharp mind or memory to be a good lawyer. Being honest and working hard is enough.
