OUTCASTE With my mother's permission and blessings, I set off exultantly for Bombay, leaving my wife with a baby of a few months. But on arrival there, friends told my brother that the Indian Ocean was rough in June and July, and as this was my first voyage, I should not be allowed to sail until November. Someone also reported that a steamer had just been sunk in a gale. This made my brother uneasy, and he refused to take the risk of allowing me to sail immediately.
 
 Leaving me with a friend in Bombay, he returned to Rajkot to resume his duty.
 
 He put the money for my travelling expenses in the keeping of a brother-inlaw, and left word with some friends to give me whatever help I might need.
 
 Time hung heavily on my hands in Bombay. I dreamt continually of going to England.
 
 Meanwhile my caste-people were agitated over my going abroad. No Modh Bania had been to England up to now, and if I dared to do so, I ought to be brought to book! A general meeting of the caste was called and I was summoned to appear before it. I went. Now I suddenly managed to muster up courage I do not know. Nothing daunted, and without the slightest hesitation, I came before the meeting. The Sheth –the headman of the community – who was distantly related to me and had been on very good terms with my father, thus accosted me: 'In the opinion of the caste, your proposal to go to England is not proper. Our religion forbids voyages abroad. We have also heard that it is not possible to live there without compromising our religion. One is obliged to eat and drink with Europeans!' To which I replied: 'I do not think it is at all against our religion to go to England. I intend going there for further studies. And I have solemnly promised to my mother to abstain from three things you fear most. I am sure the vow will keep me safe.' www.mkgandhi.org Page 61 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth 'But we tell you,' rejoined the Sheth, 'that it is not possible to keep our religion there.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
