IN INDIA AGAIN So I sailed for home. Mauritius was one of the ports of call, and as the boat made a long halt there, I went ashore and acquainted myself fairly with the local conditions. For one night I was the guest of Sir Charles Bruce, the Governor of the Colony.
 
 After reaching India I spent some time in going about the country. It was the year 1901 when the Congress met at Calcutta under the presidentship of Mr.
 
 (later Sir) Dinshaw Wacha. And I of course attended it. It was my first experience of the Congress.
 
 From Bombay I travelled in the same train as Sir Pherozeshah Mehta, as I had to speak to him about conditions in South Africa. I knew the kingly style in which he lived. He had engaged a special saloon for himself; and I had orders to take my opportunity of speaking to him by travelling in his saloon for one stage. I, therefore, went to the saloon and reported myself at the appointed station.
 
 With him were Mr. Wacha, and Mr. (now Sir) Chimanlal Setalvad. They were discussing politics. As soon as Sir Pherozeshah saw me, he said, 'Gandhi, it seems nothing can be done for you. Of course we will pass the resolution you want. But what rights have we in our own country? I believe that, so long as we have no power in our own land, you cannot fare better in the colonies.' I was taken aback. Mr. Setalvad seemed to concur in the view; Mr. Wacha cast a pathetic look at me.
 
 I tried to plead with Sir Pherozeshah, but it was out of the question for one like me to prevail upon the uncrowned king of Bombay. I contented myself with the fact that I should be allowed to move my resolution.
 
 'You will of course show me the resolution,' said Mr. Wacha, to cheer me up. I thanked him and left them at the next stop.
 
 So we reached Calcutta. The President was taken to his camp with great éclat by the Reception Committee. I asked a volunteer where I was to go.
 
 He took me to the Ripon College, where a number of delegates were being put www.mkgandhi.org Page 252 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth up.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
