' This somewhat relieved me. I had, of course, no intention of proceeding against the man who had assaulted me, and so the chapter of the assault closed there.
 
 In the morning Isa Sheth's man took me to the coach, I got a good seat and reached Johannesburg quite safely that night.
 
 Standerton is a small village and Johannesburg a big city. Abdulla Sheth had wired to Johannesburg also, and given me the name and address of Muhammad Kasam Kamruddin's firm there. Their man had come to receive me at the stage, but neither did I see him nor did he recognize me. So I decided to go to a hotel.
 
 I knew the names of several. Taking a cab I asked to be driven to the Grand National Hotel. I saw the Manager and asked for a room. He eyed me for a moment, and politely saying, 'I am very sorry, we are full up,' bade me goodbye. So I asked the cabman to drive to Muhammad Kasam Kamruddin's shop.
 
 Here I found Abdul Gani Sheth expecting me, and he gave me a cordial greeting. He had a hearty laugh over the story of my experience at the hotel.
 
 'However did you expect to be admitted to a hotel?' he said.
 
 'Why not?' I asked.
 
 'You will come to know after you have stayed here a few days,' said he.
 
 'Only we can live in a land like this, because, for making money, we do not mind pocketing insults, and here we are.' With this he narrated to me the story of the hardships of Indians in South Africa.
 
 Of Sheth Abdul Gani we shall know more as we proceed.
 
 He said: 'This country is not for men like you. Look now, you have to go to Pretoria tomorrow. You will have to travel third class. Conditions in the Transvaal are worse than in Natal. First and second class tickets are never issued to Indians.' 'You cannot have made persistent efforts in this direction.' ‘We have sent representations, but I confess our own men too do not want as a rule to travel first or second.’ www.mkgandhi.org Page 139 An Autobiography or My Experiments with Truth I sent for the railway regulations and read them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
