Mark — The king of the Jews.
 
 Luke — This is the king of the Jews.
 
 John — Jesus of Nazareth the king of the Jews.
 
 We may infer from these circumstances, trivial as they are, that those writers, whoever they were, and in whatever time they lived, were not present at the scene. The only one of the men called apostles who appears to have been near to the spot was Peter, and when he was accused of being one of Jesus's followers, it is said, (Matthew xxvi. 74,) "Then Peter began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man:" yet we are now called to believe the same Peter, convicted, by their own account, of perjury. For what reason, or on what authority, should we do this?
 
 The accounts that are given of the circumstances, that they tell us attended the crucifixion, are differently related in those four books.
 
 The book ascribed to Matthew says there was darkness over all the land from the sixth hour unto the ninth hour-—that the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom—-that there was an earthquake-—that the rocks rent-—that the graves opened, that the bodies of many of the saints that slept arose and came out of their graves after the resurrection, and went into the holy city and appeared unto many.Such is the account which this dashing writer of the book of Matthew gives, but in which he is not supported by the writers of the other books.
 
 The writer of the book ascribed to Mark, in detailing the circumstances of the crucifixion, makes no mention of any earthquake, nor of the rocks rending, nor of the graves opening, nor of the dead men walking out.
 
 The writer of the book of Luke is silent also upon the same points. And as to the writer of the book of John, though he details all the circumstances of the crucifixion down to the burial of Christ, he says nothing about either the darkness-—the veil of the temple-—the earthquake-—the rocks-—the graves-—nor the dead men.
 
 Now if it had been true that these things had happened, and if the writers of these books had lived at the time they did happen, and had been the persons they are said to be-—namely, the four men called apostles, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,-—it was not possible for them, as true historians, even without the aid of inspiration, not to have 42.According to John, (xix. 14) the sentence was not passed till about the sixth hour (noon,) and consequently the execution could not be till the afternoon; but Mark (xv.
 
 25) says expressly that he was crucified at the third hour, (nine in the morning,)—Author.
 
 126 recorded them.
 
