The account, however, is harmless; and this is more than can be said for many other parts of the Bible.
 
 Whenever we read the obscene stories, the voluptuous debaucheries, the cruel and torturous executions, the unrelenting vindictiveness, with which more than half the Bible6 is filled, it would be more consistent that we called it the word of a demon, than the Word of God. It is a history of wickedness, that has served to corrupt and brutalize mankind; and, for my own part, I sincerely detest it, as I detest everything that is cruel.
 
 We scarcely meet with anything, a few phrases excepted, but what deserves either our abhorrence or our contempt, till we come to the miscellaneous parts of the Bible. In the anonymous publications, the Psalms, and the Book of Job, more particularly in the latter, we find a great deal of elevated sentiment reverentially expressed of the power and benignity of the Almighty; but they stand on no higher rank than many other compositions on similar subjects, as well before that time as since.
 
 The Proverbs which are said to be Solomon's, though most probably a collection, (because they discover a knowledge of life, which his situation excluded him from knowing) are an instructive table of ethics. They are inferior in keenness to the proverbs of the Spaniards, and not more wise and economical than those of the American Franklin.
 
 All the remaining parts of the Bible, generally known by the name of the Prophets, are the works of the Jewish poets and itinerant preachers, who mixed poetry, anecdote, and devotion together—and those works still retain the air and style of poetry, though in translation.7 "Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth!
 
 'T is God himself that calls attention forth.
 
 Another instance I shall quote is from the mournful Jeremiah, to which I shall add two other lines, for the purpose of carrying out the figure, and showing the intention of the poet.
 
 "O, that mine head were waters and mine eyes" Were fountains flowing like the liquid skies; Then would I give the mighty flood release And weep a deluge for the human race.—Author.
 
 6.It must be borne in mind that by the "Bible" Paine always means the Old Testament alone.—Editor.
 
 18 < /a> There is not, throughout the whole book called the Bible, any word that describes to us what we call a poet, nor any word that describes what we call poetry.
 
