Introduction xvii eclipse Descartes, and whose epistemology and political theory were to exert huge influence into the nineteenth century and beyond. Locke’s monumental Essay concerning Human Understanding, published in 1690, explored the materials and limits of human thinking, setting an agenda that Hume would follow in his similarly titled Enquiry. Locke’s Essayis infused with an empiricist spirit, arguing that all our ‘ideas’ (i.e. the constituents of our thoughts) derive from experience, as does the overwhelming bulk of our knowledge. Locke starts with a vigorous attack on the theory of ‘innate ideas’, targeting both scholastic and Cartesian attempts to deduce truths by pure reason based on such supposed ideas (as, for example, in Descartes’s argument that the perfection of our innate idea of God implies a perfect cause). Locke then goes on to give a thoroughly empiricist account of the origin of our ideas, taking an atomistic approach in which complex ideas are composed of simples, and the simple ideas themselves are directly derived from experience. This experience can be of the external world or of our own minds: thus the senses yield ‘ideas of sensation’ (such as the redness of a rose), while introspection yields ‘ideas of reflection’ (such as desire for the rose, or fear of its thorn). Since all such experience is of particular sensations or feelings, the ideas we derive from these are particular also. General ideas (such as the idea of redness in general) then get generated from ideas of particular instances (e.g. the colour of different red flowers) by ‘abstraction’, in which the differing details (e.g. the varying brightnesses and hues) are ignored, and notice taken only of what is common to all, leaving an ‘abstract idea’ which is able to represent any instance whatever.
 
 If all our ideas are derived from experience, then it is natural also to see this as the source of all our knowledge of the world, since only our senses can inform us what kinds of things exist and how they behave. Thus Locke, like Boyle, was far more cautious than Descartes, who had claimed to know the entire essence of matter and mind from his innate ideas of extension and thought respectively. For Locke, the essence of both is hidden from us, and the most we can do is to seek a plausible account of them, which will always remain uncertain and answerable to further experience. It is in this spirit that he endorses the ‘corpuscularian hypothesis’, that material things are made of corpuscles of ‘substance in general’ (Boyle’s ‘universal matter’) possessing the geometrical primary properties (size, shape, motion, etc.) together with ‘solidity’ (Boyle’s ‘impenetrability’). Since we cannot know the xviii Introduction ‘real essence’ of physical substances—e.
 
