SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY My2002collection,Reading Hume on Human Understanding: Essays onthe First Enquiry(OUP) contains a sixty-page ‘Critical Survey of the Literature on Hume and the First Enquiry’ (pp. 413–74), summarizing and discussing around 250 selected books and papers, all organized according to the relevant topics. There is also a Web version of this Critical Survey at www.davidhume.org together with other relevant resources. Hence this small bibliography makes no attempt to identify specialist treatments of particular topics from the Enquiry.
 
 Hume’s Life and the Intellectual Background Mossner, E. C., The Life of David Hume(OUP, 2nd edn. 1980) is the standard biography.
 
 Gribbin, John, Science: A History (Penguin, 2002), chs. 1–5 cover the development of science from Copernicus to Newton.
 
 Craig, Edward, The Mind of God and the Works of Man (OUP, 1987), chs.1–2suggest that Hume’s primary aim was to oppose a widespread view of reason as ‘the Image of God’.
 
 Books on the Enquiry Millican, Peter, Reading Hume on Human Understanding: Essays on the First Enquiry (OUP, 2002) contains a general overview of the Enquiry, followed by papers from noted Hume scholars on each of its main sections.
 
 The papers are also summarized in an introduction.
 
 Penelhum, Terence, David Hume: An Introduction to his Philosophical System (Purdue University Press, 1992) includes selections from the Enquiry, together with helpful commentary.
 
 Buckle, Stephen, Hume’s Enlightenment Tract(OUP, 2001) is devoted to the Enquiry, giving historical background and a significantly different perspective from that presented here.
 
 Flew, Antony, Hume’s Philosophy of Belief(Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1961) was the first major book on the Enquiry—dated and difficult, but still rewarding.
 
 Approachable Discussions of Specific Topics from the Enquiry Craig, Edward, ‘Hume on Thought and Belief’, in Godfrey Vesey (ed.), Philosophers Ancient and Modern(CUP,1986),93–110.
 
 Salmon, Wesley, ‘An Encounter with David Hume’, in Joel Feinberg (ed.), Reason and Responsibility (Dickenson, 3rd edn. 1975), 190–208 (on induction).
 
