For these, then, a new universe must, every generation, be created, beyond the bounds of the present universe; or one must have been created at first so prodigiously wide as to admit of this continual influx of beings. Ought such bold suppositions to be received by any philosophy; and that merely on the pretence of a bare possibility?
 
 When it is asked, whether Agamemnon, Thersites, Hannibal, Nero, and every stupid clown, that ever existed in Italy, Scythia, Bactria, or Guinea, are now alive; can any man think, that a scrutiny of nature will furnish arguments strong enough to answer so strange a question in the affirmative? The want of arguments, without revelation, sufficiently establishes the negative.
 
 Quanto facilius, says Pliny3, certiusque sibi quemque credere, ac specimen 598 securitatis antigenitali sumere experimento. Our insensibility, before the composition of the body, seems to natural reason a proof of a like state after its dissolution.
 
 Wereour horror of annihilation an original passion, not the effect of our general love of happiness, it would rather prove the mortality of the soul.
 
 For as nature does nothing in vain, she would never give us a horror against an impossible event. She may give us a horror against an unavoidable event, provided our endeavours, as in the present case, may often remove it to some distance. Death is in the end unavoidable; yet the human species could not be preserved, had not nature inspired us with an aversion towards it.
 
 Alldoctrines are to be suspected, which are favoured by our passions.
 
 And the hopes and fears which gave rise to this doctrine, are very obvious.
 
 It is an infinite advantage in every controversy, to defend the negative.
 
 If the question be out of the common experienced course of nature, this circumstance is almost if not altogether decisive. By what arguments or analogies can we prove any state of existence, which no one ever saw, and which no wise resembles any that ever was seen? Who will repose such trust in any pretended philosophy, as to admit upon its testimony the reality of so marvellous a scene?
 
 Some new species of logic is requisite for that purpose; and some new faculties of the mind, which may enable us to comprehend that logic.
 
 Nothing could set in a fuller light the infinite obligations, which mankind have to divine revelation; since we find, that no other medium could ascertain this great and important truth.
 
 3 Lib. vii. cap. 55.
 
