e. with the Sun at the centre, and Earth orbiting). His bookOn the Revolutions of the Celestial Sphereswas published in the year of his death, with an introduction presenting the theory more as a means of calculating the apparent motions of the heavens (as an aid to devising an accurate calendar) than as a claim to astronomical truth. Copernicus was not the first to put forward a heliocentric theory: Aristarchus of Samos (c.310‒230bc) proposed one, though this work was lost, like most other pagan texts, during the early Christian era.
 
 Galileo Galilei (1564‒1642) was an Italian physicist and astronomer whose observations provided the first decisive evidence for the heliocentric theory, notably the phases of Venus which proved that Venus is sometimes on the opposite side of the Sun from the Earth. Galileo also did important work in dynamics, helping to establish the principle of inertia.
 
 See §§1–2of the Introduction for more on all this, and §4on his famous condemnation by the Roman Catholic Inquisition. Hume greatly admired Galileo, and mentions him in the extracts from the Dialogues in this volume (see Appendix III).
 
 Tycho Brahe (1546‒1601) was a Danish astronomer and nobleman who built an observatory on the island of Hven and made the most accurate astronomical measurements then available. In 1572he observed a supernova in the constellation Cassiopeia, indicating that the heavens are not unchanging as Aristotle had taught. However, unconvinced that the Earth moves, he proposed an alternative theory of the solar system in which the Sun orbits the Earth, while the planets orbit the Sun.
 
 Johannes Kepler (1571‒1630) was a German astronomer and mathematician who became assistant to Brahe and inherited his observations.
 
 Using these, he established that the planets move not in circles (as both Copernicus and Galileo had assumed), but in ellipses, and he devised three mathematical laws of planetary motion—based on a heliocentric model— that provided the first genuinely accurate method of predicting astronomical phenomena.
 
 Robert Boyle (1627‒91) was an Irish natural philosopher, arguably the first modern chemist, and famous for Boyle’s Lawwhich relates the pressure to the volume of an enclosed quantity of gas at constant temperature.
 
 His impact on Locke is described in §3of the Introduction, while Hume’s History of England(vi.541) provides a useful summary: there flourished during this period a Boyle and a Newton; men who trod, with cautious, and therefore the more secure steps, the only road, which leads to true philosophy.
 
 Boyle improved the pneumatic engine invented by Otto Guericke, and was thereby enabled to make several new and curious experiments on the air as well as on other bodies: His chemistry is much admired by those who are acquainted with 228 Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers that art: His hydrostatics contain a greater mixture of reasoning and invention with experiment than any other of his works; but his reasoning is still remote from that boldness and temerity, which had led astray so many philosophers.
 
