xliv Introduction PART II: Cause Successfully Defined The first paragraph of Part ii provides a useful summary of Part i, pointing towards the sceptical conclusion that the idea of necessary connexion is entirely bogus and the term meaningless. But Hume then suggests an alternative which proves to be more fruitful. Perhaps the impression of necessary connexion is not one that we perceive in particularinstances of causal interactions (whether these be external or internal, physical or mental), but is instead an impression that arises from repetition when it leads us, through the operation of custom, to make causal inferences: This connexion, therefore, which we feelin the mind, this customary transition of the imagination from one object to its usual attendant, is the sentiment or impression, from which we form the idea of power or necessary connexion.
 
 (E7.28) Thus the idea of necessary connexion is derived from our own awareness of making causal inferences. Having seen AandBconstantlyconjoined in the past, when we see an A, we just find ourselves expecting a B, and we are aware of having made this transition of thought or inference. It is the inference itself that then gives content to our idea of connexion, ‘that inference of the understanding, which is the only connexion, that we can have any comprehension of’ (E8.25). When we say that A is the cause of B, we naturally think of this causal link—this supposed necessary connexion—as the basis of our inference from AtoB. But the central core of Hume’s message is that this is the wrong way round: it is our tendency to infer BfromAthat gives content to the causal claim, and so, as he put it in the Treatise, ‘the necessary connexion depends on the inference, instead of the inference’s depending on the necessary connexion’ (T1.3.6.3).
 
 The idea of necessary connexion has now been vindicated as a bona fide idea, but shown to be copied from something internal, which Hume—in line with his Copy Principle—calls an ‘impression’, but which would perhaps be more accurately described as a reflexive awareness of our own inferential behaviour. It seems to follow that we have no real idea of any sort of ‘power’ or ‘necessity’ that might be supposed to reside in objects, leading Hume to his famous—indeed notorious—subjectivist conclusion about necessity and hence causation: When we say, therefore, that one object is connected with another, we mean only, that they have acquired a connexion in our thought (E7.28) Introduction xlv The necessity of any action, whether of matter or of mind, is not, properly speaking, a quality in the agent, but in any thinking or intelligent being, who may consider the action.
 
