xl Introduction Hume calls this principle of factual inference customorhabit, emphasizing its vital role as ‘the great guide of human life’, without which ‘we should be entirely ignorant of every matter of fact, beyond what is immediately present to the memory and senses’ (E 5.6). Custom provides an answer to the sceptical doubts that Hume has raised not by addressing them, but by ignoring them. It irresistibly leads us to make inferences from observed to unobserved immediately, instinctively, and without reflection, but since these inferences are not founded on reason, they are also immune to scepticism about reason (E5.8). All this might seem to make Hume an irrationalist, committed to denying any criteria for reasonable belief and to accepting the equal legitimacy of any inference that seems natural. But as we shall see later, this is very far from being the case.
 
 Part ii of Section V discusses the nature of belief, though Hume indicates that this discussion is not central to his views, and ‘may . . .
 
 be neglected’ without great loss (E5.9). Whereas Part i seems to be an exercise in what Section I called ‘mental geography’, identifying custom as one of the central ‘powers and faculties’ of the human mind (E1.14), Part ii seems to provide a cautious sketch of the kind of deeper study of ‘secret springs and principles’ (E1.15) that Hume had also anticipated, speculating about the underlying basis of custom’s operation. The main conclusion of this study is simply that custom is somewhat analogous to the association of ideas explained in Section III (E 5.20). It therefore provides an illustration of how the science of the human mind can proceed, aiming ‘to reduce the principles’ that govern it ‘to a greater simplicity, and to resolve the many particular effects into a few general causes, by means of reasonings from analogy, experience, and observation’ (E4.12). Hume has already argued that this sort of systematization is ‘the utmost effort of human reason’, and is the most that science can aspire to, given the impossibility of achieving a priori insight into why things operate as they do.
 
 Section V Part ii thus provides a brief illustration of Hume’s general philosophy of science, applied to the study of the human mind.
 
 12. Section VI: ‘Of Probability’ As we saw earlier in Section IV, Hume took over from Locke (Essay, IV. xv. 1) a general distinction between demonstrativeandprobablereasoning, though he generally prefers to call the latter ‘moral reasoning’, Introduction xli or ‘reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence’.
 
