Introduction xlix instincts. Perhaps for this reason Hume’s discussion is quite short, and steers clear of the dangerous implications made explicit in his essay ‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’ (included in this volume as Appendix II).
 
 The main point Hume emphasizes here is a corollary of his inductive approach to science: since all our factual reasonings are founded on an assumption of uniformity or resemblance, their strength can be expected to depend on the degree of resemblance involved. Though Hume illustrates this point by the analogy between humans and animals—appealing to the instinctive nature of animal reasoning to corroborate his claim (from Sections IV and V) that human reasoning is instinctive also—his methodological message is more general.
 
 This is, that reasoning from analogy is a natural extension of inference based on custom, just as probabilistic reasoning was shown to be in Section VI.
 
 16. Section X: ‘Of Miracles’ Though mainly concerned with miracles, Section X has a far wider significance, because here we see how Hume’s theory of induction based on custom has a critical edge, helping us to weigh up conflicting evidence appropriately, particularly in the case of evidence from testimony. Hume starts (E10.3–4) by recalling his account of probability from Section VI, making its normative implications very explicit: A wise man, therefore, proportions his belief to the evidence. . . . All probability, then, supposes an opposition of experiments and observations, where the one side is found to overbalance the other, and to produce a degree of evidence, proportioned to the superiority. (E10.4) He goes on to argue that this general principle should be applied equally in the case of testimony, hence the credit that we give to reports of witnesses should be proportioned to their experienced reliability.
 
 However experience indicates that the reliability of witnesses varies, depending on a number of factors such as ‘the opposition of contrary testimony; . . . the character or number of the witnesses; . . . the manner of their delivering their testimony; or . . . the union of all these circumstances’ (E 10.7). These are all factors that we naturally—and rightly—take into account when assessing the overall credibility of testimony, which will depend in each case on the balance between the positive and negative factors involved.
 
