His Abrégé de l’histoire de Port-Royal reports this ‘miracle of the holy thorn’, by which Pascal’s niece Marguerite Périer was cured of an ulcerated eye through the application of a thorn (supposedly from the crown of thorns worn by Jesus).
 
 bishop of TOURNAY: Gilbert de Choiseul du Plessis-Praslin (1613‒89), whose advocacy of the miracle of the holy thorn is reported by Racine.
 
 queen-regent of FRANCE: Anne of Austria (1601‒66), widow of King Louis XIII and regent during the infancy of her son Louis XIV, sent her personal physician, M. Félix, to investigate the alleged miracle. He returned convinced, but she refrained from any public statement so as to avoid theological controversy.
 
 N Dr. BERKLEY . . . BAYLE: for Berkeley, see Glossarial Index. Pierre Bayle(1647‒1706) was a French Protestant author, best known for his Dictionnaire historique et critique (1697). Bayle’s Dictionary is particularly notable for its collection of sceptical arguments, which Hume acknowledged using as a source for his Treatise of Human Nature.
 
 However Bayle, unlike Hume, was a fideist, undermining reason only to make room for faith. As such, he may be the model, or at least a partial model, for the character of Philo in Hume’s Dialogues concerning Natural Religion(1779), who appears to advocate fideism towards the end of the work.
 
 O mathematical points: indivisible points without any extension.
 
 supposed infinitely divisible: in the first two editions of the Enquiry (1748and1750), the following three sentences were inserted here: ‘In general, we may pronounce, that the Ideas of greater, less, or equal, which are the chief Objects of Geometry, are far from being so exact or determinate as to be the Foundation of such extraordinary Inferences.
 
 Ask a Mathematician what he means, when he pronounces two Quantities to be equal, and he must say, that the Idea of Equalityis one of those, which cannot be defin’d, and that ’tis sufficient to place two equal Quantities before any one, in order to suggest it. Now this is an Appeal to the general Appearance of Objects to the Imagination or Senses, and consequently can never afford Conclusions so directly contrary to these Faculties.’ P particular . . . term: a sketch of Hume’s theory of abstraction from Treatise1.1.7.
 
 ridicule . . . ignorant: Hume has a specific motive for wanting to ‘avoid absurdities and contradictions’, because these sorts of paradoxes were standardly used to promote religion by showing the weakness of mere human reason (thus supposedly making room for faith).
 
 Q Ex nihilo, nihil fit: most commonly rendered as ‘nothing comes from nothing’, hence anything that exists must have a cause of its existence. Hume famously discussed this causal maxim in Treatise1.3.3, concluding that it could not be proved intuitively or demonstratively, 210 Notes to Page 177 though he evinced (both there and in other sources) a belief in the maxim as based on experience.
 
