188 Notes to Pages 12–16 2.1 These faculties: in addition to the very broad distinction between ‘the understanding’ (or ‘reason’) and ‘the will’ (see explanatory note to 1.2), Hume also sometimes refers to other faculties of the mind, notably the senses (sight, touch, etc.), the memory, the imagination (also called ‘the fancy’), and the passions(i.e. feelings or sentiments). Talk of such faculties does not imply that they correspond to real divisions within the mind; indeed John Locke was emphatic that making such an assumption would be a mistake (Essay, II. xxi. 17‒20). Hume’s own usage of the terms is accordingly rather flexible, particularly in respect of reason (or ‘theunderstanding’) and its boundary with ‘the imagination’ (though he is most explicit about this in the Treatise, e.g. 1.3.9.19n,1.4.4.1,1.4.7.7).
 
 2.3 force and vivacity: it is unclear whether Hume intends to definethe distinction between impressions and ideas in terms of ‘force and vivacity’, or whether this is simply an attempt to capture the difference between sensations or feelings and thoughts (cf. explanatory note to 5.12, and Introduction, p. xxxiii n. 17).
 
 2.5 all our ideas . . . more lively ones: this is Hume’s famous Copy Principle, by which he denies the existence of innate ideas(cf.2.9endnote [A]).
 
 See §9of the Introduction, above.
 
 2.7 A LAPLANDER orNEGROE: Lapland is an Arctic region of northern Scandinavia; a negro is someone with dark skin, typically of African origin. In Hume’s day, very few people from these places would have experienced the taste of wine.
 
 2.8 one contradictory phaenomenon: Hume now presents his puzzling example of the ‘missing shade of blue’, which seems to show that ‘the simple ideas are not always . . . derived from the correspondent impressions’. He does not seem to be particularly disturbed by the apparent counterexample to his Copy Principle, perhaps for the reason suggested in the Introduction, p. xxxiv n.18.
 
 2.9 from what . . . derived?: Hume now wields his Copy Principle as a method of clarifying obscure ideas, and explicitly links it with the issue of meaning: the meaning of a word being determined by the idea with which it is associated. He will use this principle in Section VII, to investigate the meaning of terms such as ‘power, force, energy, or necessary connexion’ (7.3).
 
 SECTION III 3.0 ASSOCIATION ofIDEAS: John Locke (Essay, II. xxxiii. 4‒7), like other philosophers, had criticized the association of ideas as irrational and even akin to madness, because it determines the train of our thoughts not by reason, but instead on the basis of chance, or of custom (i.e. our tendency to form habitual trains of thought in response to repeated experience). Hume aims to overturn this traditional view, by showing Notes to Pages 17–20 189 in Sections IV and V that all factual reasoning depends on custom, so that without it, we could never learn anything beyond the reach of our memory and senses.
 
