Introduction xxvii Malebranche’s occasionalism has the peculiar consequence that every event in the world is really brought about by God, and this applies to the operation not only of inanimate things, but also of our own sensory and motor faculties. When we see an apple, for example, or when we stretch to pick it up, it is God who creates our visual perceptions (which are of ideas in His mind) to correspond with the reality, and it is He who moves our arm (or, strictly, re-creates it moment by moment in changing positions) to correspond with our willed movement. But having gone this far, there might now seem little point in postulating a material world at all, since it does not appear to play any part in what we experience or in explaining what happens (e.g. it is not any powers of the billiard balls that explain their movements, but God’s decision to re-create them in accordance with the ‘laws of motion’ to which He has chosen to conform).14 Thus some philosophers, impressed by the fundamental notion that matter cannot be active, ended up entirely denying its existence, a view called immaterialism or idealism. On this view, material objects ‘exist’ only in so far as we have ideas in our mind that appear to represent them, or God has ideas in His mind that are archetypes of the ideas He wills to create in ours.
 
 The most prominent of these immaterialists was George Berkeley, whose overall position is in many respects similar to that of Malebranche, though with a different emphasis due in part to his place within the Lockean rather than Cartesian tradition. Locke had insisted on a distinction between ideas, which are purely in the mind, and material things, which are the presumed external causes of our perceptual ideas. These ideas represent things as having both primary qualities (such as shape, size, and motion) and also secondary qualities (such as colour, taste, and smell), but our best theory of the world— i.e. Boyle’s corpuscularianism—indicates that only our ideas of primaryqualities resemble genuine qualities of material things. Berkeley agreeswith Locke regarding the essentially mental nature of what is immediately perceived, and the main focus of his arguments is to attack the Lockean view that there is something in addition, some supposed material object ‘behind’ the perceived apple-idea. In particular, 14 In a sense, God’s choice of the laws of motion is arbitrary, though Malebranche believed that God would inevitably create the best world consistent with His nature, so that His choice of laws would be determined by His wisdom and goodness.
 
