15)—the underlying causes—that are responsible for that behaviour.
 
 See §8of the Introduction, above.
 
 1.14 the compass of human understanding: the range of human rational enquiry (the phrase was used by John Locke in his Essay, IV. xxi. 1).
 
 1.14 intimately concerned: in the first two editions of the Enquiry (1748 and 1750), a note appeared at this point, crediting Francis Hutcheson (1694‒1746) and Joseph Butler (1692‒1752) with important insights: see Textual Variants, above (pp. 177‒8), and also p. 210.
 
 1.15 secret springs and principles: the underlying causes of the behaviour of the human mind. Hume’s comparison with astronomy in these two paragraphs indicates that ‘mental geography’ can be a very sophisticated activity, analogous to the work of Kepler in systematizing the motion of the planets. Discovery of ‘secret springs and principles’ is ascribed only to Newton’s monumental synthesis, and applying this analogy back to Hume’s work suggests that his own discoveries—such as the identification of custom as a central feature of human inference— will come under the heading of ‘mental geography’. The Enquirythus seems to show less ambition than the Treatise, which had suggested that the association of ideas is a fundamental force analogous to gravitation (1.1.4.6).
 
 1.15 Till a philosopher: an allusion to Isaac Newton, see Glossarial Index.
 
 SECTION II 2.0 theORIGIN of IDEAS: Hume follows the pattern of Locke’s Essayby starting his investigation into the human understanding with the question of where our ideas come from. Their answer to this is often thought to represent the key difference between ‘rationalists’ and ‘empiricists’ (see pp.223‒6), and as in the Treatise(1.1.1.4), Hume’s Copy Principle(2.5) puts him in the empiricist camp with Locke, denying innate ideas (cf.2.9endnote [A]). In Book I of the TreatiseHume’s discussion then continues forward with the same Lockean agenda, asking how we acquire our various ideas: of the memory and imagination, of relations, abstractions, space and time, causation, body, the self, etc. In the Enquiry, by contrast, Hume soon turns to the very different issue of how we acquire information about the world, focusing on the role of factual inference (Section IV). Only after establishing that this intimately involves the idea of causation, and hence necessary connexion, does he come back to considering the origin of that one specific idea (in Section VII), before returning again to epistemological questions for most of the rest of the Enquiry.
 
 2.1 perceptions of the mind: Hume uses the term ‘perceptions’ for what Descartes and Locke had called ‘ideas’, and then draws his own distinction within the category of such perceptions, between ‘ideas’ and ‘impressions’. See §9of the Introduction, above.
 
