g. the underlying corpuscular structure of gold—our science of them has to be based on the manifest properties that we perceive, the ‘nominal essence’ by which weidentify them—e.g. the ‘Colour, Weight, Fusibility, and Fixedness, etc.’ of gold, which ‘gives it a right to that Name’ (Essay, III. iii. 18). Science must therefore proceed by careful observation and experiment, with little point to theorizing about underlying essences. Occasionally Locke seems to go further than these modest principles would allow, suggesting that the mechanical behaviour of the corpuscular world could in principle be predicted without experiment if only we had senses sufficient to inspect it in detail: I doubt not but if we could discover the Figure, Size, Texture, and Motion of the minute Constituent parts of any two Bodies, we should know without Trial several of their Operations one upon another, as we do now the Properties of a Square, or a Triangle. (Essay,IV. iii. 25) But this remains at most a theoretical speculation, and unlike Descartes, Locke never expresses any serious ambition to deduce physical laws by pure reason.
 
 Descartes’s ambition exceeded his reach, and although his thought remained influential for many years, especially in his native France, its practical value never matched its theoretical elegance. The supposed deduction of precise laws of motion from the pure geometry of extension proved elusive, and Cartesian mechanics was unable to yield convincing predictions either of terrestrial dynamics (e.g. flying projectiles and colliding billiard balls), or the celestial orbits of the planets. Indeed the careful observations and calculations of Tycho Brahe and Johannes Kepler had revealed these orbits to be elliptical rather than circular, and this gave particular difficulties for the Cartesian vortex theory. Its death knell came in 1687, when Isaac Newton was able in his Principia Mathematicato prove results indicating the impossibility of a vortex yielding elliptical motion. The Principia, perhaps the most influential work of science ever published, went on to displace the Cartesian account by formulating a set of mechanical laws that apparently explained both terrestrial and celestial dynamics in exquisite detail. Newton retained Descartes’s concept of inertia as his ‘first law’ (that objects move uniformly unless acted upon by a force), but followed Boyle in replacing the Cartesian plenum with a universe mainly composed of empty space. He then took the controversial Introduction xix step of positing a force, called ‘gravity’, acting between bodies across that empty space, proportional to their mass and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
 
