Has not the same custom the same influence on all?
 
 We shall here* endeavour briefly to explain the great difference in human understandings: After which the reason of the difference between men and animals will easily be comprehended.
 
 1. When we have lived any time, and have been accustomed to the uniformity of nature, we acquire a general habit, by which we always transfer the known to the unknown, and conceive the latter to resemble the former.
 
 By means of this general habitual principle, we regard even one experiment as the foundation of reasoning, and expect a similar event with some degree of certainty, where the experiment has been made accurately, and free from all foreign circumstances. It is therefore considered as a matter of great importance to observe the consequences of things; and as one man may very much surpass another in attention and memory and observation, this will make a very great difference in their reasoning.
 
 2. Where there is a complication of causes to produce any effect, one mind may be much larger than another, and better able to comprehend the whole system of objects, and to infer justly their consequences.
 
 3. One man is able to carry on a chain of consequences to a greater length than another.
 
 4. Few men can think long without running into a confusion of ideas, and mistaking one for another; and there are various degrees of this infirmity.
 
 5. The circumstance, on which the effect depends, is frequently involved in other circumstances, which are foreign and extrinsic. The separation of it often requires great attention, accuracy, and subtilty.
 
 6. The forming of general maxims from particular observation is a very nice operation; and nothing is more usual, from haste or a narrowness of mind, which sees not on all sides, than to commit mistakes in this particular.
 
 7. When we reason from analogies, the man, who has the greater experienceor the greater promptitude of suggesting analogies, will be the better reasoner.
 
 8. Byasses from prejudice, education, passion, party, &c. hang more upon one mind than another.
 
 9. After we have acquired a confidence in human testimony, books and conversation enlarge much more the sphere of one man’s experience and thought than those of another.
 
 It would be easy to discover many other circumstances that make a difference in the understandings of men.
 
