‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’ 149 Punishment, according to ourconceptions, should bear some proportion to the offence. Why then eternal punishment for the temporary offences of so frail a creature as man? Can any one approve of Alexander’srage, who intended to exterminate a whole nation, because they had seized hisfavourite horse,Bucephalus?1 Heavenand hell suppose two distinct species of men, the good and the bad. But the greatest part of mankind float between vice and virtue.
 
 Were one to go round the world with an intention of giving a good supper to the righteous and a sound drubbing to the wicked, he would frequently be embarrassed in his choice, and would find, that the merits and 595 the demerits of most men and women scarcely amount to the value of either.
 
 To suppose measures of approbation and blame, different from the human, confounds every thing. Whence do we learn, that there is such a thing as moral distinctions but from our own sentiments?
 
 Whatman, who has not met with personal provocation (or what good natur’d man who has) could inflict on crimes, from the sense of blame alone, even the common, legal, frivolous punishments? And does any thing steel the breast of judges and juries against the sentiments of humanitybut reflections on necessity and public interest?
 
 Bythe Roman law, those who had been guilty of parricide and confessed their crime, were put into a sack, along with an ape, a dog, and a serpent; and thrown into the river: Death alone was the punishment of those, who denied their guilt, however fully proved. A criminal was tryed before Augustus, and condemned after full conviction: But the humane emperor, when he put the last interrogatory, gave it such a turn as to lead the wretch into a denial of his guilt. You surely, said the prince, did not kill your father2.
 
 This lenity suits our natural ideas of RIGHT, even towards the greatest of all criminals, and even tho’ it prevents so inconsiderable a sufferance.
 
 Nay, even the most bigotted priest would naturally, without reflection, approve of it; provided the crime was not heresy or infidelity. For as these crimes hurt himself in his temporal interests and advantages; perhaps he may not be altogether so indulgent to them.
 
 Thechief source of moral ideas is the reflection on the interest of human society. Ought these interests, so short, so frivolous, to be guarded by punishments, eternal and infinite? The damnation of one man is an infinitely greater evil in the universe, than the subversion of a thousand millions of kingdoms.
 
 Naturehas rendered human infancy peculiarly frail and mortal; as it 596 were on purpose to refute the notion of a probationary state. The half of mankind dye before they are rational creatures.
 
 1 Quint. Curtius, lib. vi. cap. 5.
 
 2 Sueton. August. cap. 3.
 
