xxxiv Introduction The Copy Principle Hume argues that although our capacity to form ideas may seem completely unbounded, in fact ‘all this creative power of the mind amounts to no more than the faculty of compounding, transposing, augmenting, or diminishing the materials afforded us by the senses and experience’ (E2.5).18In other words, our minds can create new ideas from the components which experience has already given us, by combining together our existing ideas in new ways or by shuffling the components of our existing ideas, but we are quite unable to form any completely new ideas beyond those that have already been given to us by sensation or feeling.
 
 Or, to express myself in philosophical language, all our ideas or more feeble perceptions are copies of our impressions or more lively ones. (E2.5) This is widely known as Hume’s Copy Principle.19 Hume gives two arguments (E2.6,2.7) for the Copy Principle, the first of which simply claims that all of our existing ideas, if examined, will in fact turn out to be copied from impressions. Here the example he gives is deliberately chosen to oppose Descartes: The idea of God, as meaning an infinitely intelligent, wise, and good Being, arises from reflecting on the operations of our own mind, and augmenting, without limit, those qualities of goodness and wisdom. (E2.6, my italics) Obviously the Cartesian could persist in claiming that the idea of God is innate, but Hume’s rival account of the idea is straightforward and plausible, and carries force given the weight of his generalization. If all our ideas can be accounted for by the Copy Principle, then why should we suppose any mysterious faculty of innate ideas?
 
 Hume ends Section II by suggesting that the Copy Principle provides a potent weapon for eliminating bogus would-be ideas that turn 18 Hume’s famous ‘missing shade of blue’ (E2.8) highlights another way in which the mind might ‘compound . . . the materials afforded us by the senses’, by mixing ideas to generate intermediates. This casts doubt on the claim that all simpleideas must be direct copies of impressions, but it does not pose any sort of difficulty for his general claim that the materials of our thoughts must ultimately derive from impressions.
 
 19 Without the simple-complex distinction the principle is hard to express precisely (cf.T1.1.1.7), because a complex idea (e.g. of a golden mountain) can perfectly well be formed without being copied from a single corresponding impression. The point is that everypartof the idea must ultimately be copied from part of some impression—i.e. there is no part of the idea which is not impression-derived.
 
