Introduction liii of a god is bound to be weak (E 11.25–7). Hume also hints at two other general principles, that it is problematic to draw conclusions about any supposed cause that is known only through a single manifestation(E11.25‒6), and—even more so—any supposed cause of a unique type (E11.30).
 
 18. Section XII: ‘Of the Academical or Sceptical Philosophy’ In Section XII, Hume discusses a wide array of sceptical arguments, clarifying his own finely balanced attitude to them. While acknowledging many of them to be irrefutable, he nevertheless resists, on practical rather than purely theoretical grounds, being forced by them into ‘excessive’ scepticism. This approach is typified by his short treatment of antecedent scepticism at E 12.3–4, where he contrasts the futile and self-defeating extremes of Cartesian doubt with a more moderate caution and modesty that he fully endorses.32 He then moves on to discuss several varieties of consequent scepticism— scepticism arising from specific considerations rather than generalized a priori distrust of our faculties—and these occupy most of Part i and all of Part ii.
 
 Turning first to our sensory belief in the external world, Hume attributes this to a ‘blind and powerful instinct of nature’ (E 12.8), which, however, leads us to identify physical objects with the very images that appear to our minds. This identification raises obvious problems, because the perceptions of the mind are so fleeting (E12.9); hence to maintain our instinctive belief in a durable external world, modern philosophers such as Locke adopt the theory of representative realism: postulating physical objects that are distinct from, and causes of, those perceptions. Drawing on his theory of causation, Hume now emphasizes the impossibility of establishing any such theory.
 
 If we are only ever directly acquainted with our perceptions, and never with their supposed causes, then no connexion between the two—no ‘constant conjunction’ (cf. E7.28,8.5)—can ever be observed. Even worse, an argument derived from Berkeley (E 12.15) suggests that the Lockean theory is not only groundless but vacuous or incoherent.
 
 32 Descartes used extreme scepticism as a tool for sweeping away traditional views, and claimed to establish his own first principles as ‘clearly and distinctly perceived’, supposedly immune even to the most radical doubt.
 
