Introduction xxiii treatment of immortality to be published only posthumously.11 Although religious persecution in Britain had greatly declined after the horrors of the Civil War (1642–51) and the bigotry of Cromwell’s Commonwealth (1649–60), it was still possible in 1697for Thomas Aikenhead, a 19-year-old Edinburgh University student, to be hanged for blasphemous comments made to other students, and even as late as1733, the Cambridge theologian Thomas Woolston died in prison, having been convicted of blasphemy four years earlier. Hume himself experienced prejudice of a less dangerous kind, being rejected as an applicant for a chair of Philosophy at Edinburgh in 1745 on the ground that his Treatise of Human Natureadvocated ‘Principles leading to downright Atheism’ (L17), even though the Treatise(for reasons of prudence) contained no explicit discussion of religion. In 1756, the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland debated a motion to excommunicate him (i.e. expel him from the Church), based largely on the religious sections of the Enquirywhich had been published in 1748, though the motion was rejected. By then, such a condemnation might well have made the Church a laughing stock, but it was still prudent for Hume to tread carefully where Christianity was concerned, and an explicit denial of its central doctrines would be very likely both to provoke a hostile reaction, and also to upset numerous friends. Even in eighteenth-century Edinburgh, the ‘Athens of the North’ which saw the brilliant flowering of intellectual activity of which Hume was a leading light, religious orthodoxy remained a potent force and a centre of allegiance for the vast majority.
 
 5. God’s Design, and Human Reason Amongst the more sophisticated classes of this ‘Scottish Enlightenment’, however, the nature of religious commitment was profoundly different from either of the types that had been dominant in the seventeenth century. Roman Catholicism, with its ornate rites, magical transubstantiation, and saintly miracles, was now commonly dismissed as ‘superstition’, while the narrow bigotry and fervent ‘enthusiasm’ of various Protestant sects was equally despised.12Repelled by the vicious 11 For examples of Hume’s other methods of hiding or disguising his atheism, see below pp. 146,161‒2,202‒3.
 
 12 Accordingly Hume’s essay ‘Of Superstition and Enthusiasm’, in which he critically discusses them both, could safely be published in 1741.
 
