204 Notes to Pages 112–118 12.13 a very unexpected circuit: Descartes famously appealed to God’s non-deceitfulness in order to establish the ultimate reliability of our faculties if used properly.
 
 12.15 another sceptical topic: this argument broadly follows that of Treatise 1.4.4, ‘Of the modern philosophy’.
 
 12.15 merely secondary: Locke’s distinction between primary and secondary qualities, against which Hume here deploys an argument of Berkeley’s, is discussed in §3of the Introduction, above. For Locke and Berkeley see also Glossarial Index.
 
 12.15 Abstraction: Locke appealed to the notion of abstraction to explain the origin of general ideas, see the Introduction, p. xvii.
 
 12.15 Isoceles nor Scalenum: an isosceles triangle is one that has two sides the same length, while a scalene triangle’s sides are all of different lengths.
 
 Berkeley (Principles of Human Knowledge, Introduction §13) famously took advantage of Locke’s confused description of the abstract idea of a triangle (in Essay, IV. vii. 9) to ridicule his notion of abstraction.
 
 12.16 no sceptic . . . against it: the last sentence of this paragraph was added only in the final 1777 edition of the Enquiry, and its interpretation is unclear. Hume appears to be dismissive of the notion of ‘a certain unknown, inexplicable something, as the cause of our perceptions’, but rather than reject the notion as incoherent, he seems to suggest that it is sufficiently thin to be harmless. No dubious metaphysics (e.g. claiming to know the powers or inherent limits of matter) can possibly be based on something so meagre.
 
 12.21 Pyrrhonism: see Glossarial Index.
 
 12.22 more profound researches: Hume now summarizes his own argument from Section IV, ‘Sceptical doubts concerning the operations of the understanding’, incorporating also the lesson from Section VII (cf. 4.16n.7).
 
 He highlights the sceptical worry that the instinct of custom, ‘like other instincts, may be fallacious and deceitful’. For an overview of Hume’s strategy at this point in Section XII, see the Introduction, p. lv.
 
 12.23 COPERNICAN orPTOLEMAIC: see §1of the Introduction, above.
 
 12.23 STOICorEPICUREAN: see Glossarial Index.
 
 12.24 result of this PYRRHONISM: since the arguments for Pyrrhonism are supposed to be irrefutable, Hume seems to be suggesting that it results in mitigated scepticism by a natural causal route rather than rational reflection. If we reflect on the Pyrrhonian arguments, then we will naturallyfind ourselves drawn towards mitigated scepticism even when common life renders the Pyrrhonian arguments impossible to believe.
 
 12.25 limitation of our enquiries: see the extract from the Dialogues(Appendix III, above) for Cleanthes’ doubts about the cogency of this recommendation.
 
 12.25 methodized and corrected: see pp. lv–lvi of the Introduction for a sketch of how this approach to science might work.
 
