16The ‘easy philosophy’ is eloquent and poetic, using immediately striking, easily comprehensible, and imaginatively pleasing reflections on life to paint virtue in alluring colours and thus to improve our manners and behaviour. By contrast, ‘abstruse’ philosophy aims to satisfy the intellect rather than to please the imagination— its goal is to discover the actual principles of human nature by systematic rational investigation. Initially Hume gives the appearance of preferring the easy philosophy (E 1.3–6) as more agreeable and down to earth, but in fact most of the section is devoted to a defence of abstruse metaphysics, spelling out ‘what can reasonably be pleaded in their behalf’ (E1.7).
 
 Hume’s defence of abstruse metaphysics combines two main themes which might be described as the scientificand the critical. The former highlights the necessity and value of careful, precise thinking in establishing general truths about man and the moral world; thus the abstruse philosophy can help the easy, in much the same way as an anatomist can help a painter, as well as fostering the innocent pleasure of discovery. The main objection to this optimistic picture is that such potential discovery of truth is an illusion, and it is in response to this objection that the critical theme comes to the fore: Here indeed lies the justest and most plausible objection against a considerable part of metaphysics, that they are not properly a science; but arise either from the fruitless efforts of human vanity, which would penetrate into subjects utterly inaccessible to the understanding, or from the craft of popular superstitions, which, being unable to defend themselves on fair ground, raise these intangling brambles to cover and protect their weakness. . . .
 
 But is this a sufficient reason, why philosophers should desist from such researches . . . ? Is it not proper to draw an opposite conclusion . . . ? . . . The only method of freeing learning . . . from these abstruse questions, is to enquire seriously into the nature of human understanding, and shew, from an exact analysis of its powers and capacity, that it is by no means fitted for such remote and abstruse subjects. We . . . must cultivate true metaphysics with some care, in order to destroy the false and adulterate. . . . Accurate and just reasoning. . . is alone able to subvert that abstruse philosophy and metaphysical jargon, which, being mixed up with popular superstition . . . gives it the air of science and wisdom. (E1.11–12) 16 Here ‘moral philosophy’ is used in its 18th-century sense, rather than in the modern sense of ethics. Note again that unfamiliar or antiquated terms can be consulted in the Glossary below.
 
