This argument, however, even if accepted, does little to resolve the widely felt tension between determinism and moral responsibility: if everything that I do was ‘pre-ordained’ before I was even born, then how can I be genuinely responsible? It might now seem that the notion of moral responsibility has turned out to be incoherent, both requiring and yet being incompatible with determinism. Hume sketches his solution to this conundrum when discussing the religious implications of his views (E 8.34–5), a solution based on his moral theory which is sentimentalist(i.e. based on the emotions or passions) rather than rationalist: A man, who is robbed of a considerable sum; does he find his vexation for the loss any wise diminished by these sublime reflections? Why then should his moral resentment against the crime be supposed incompatible with them? (E8.35) If morality is founded on emotions of blame (etc.) that naturally arise within us in certain circumstances—for example when a crime is committed—then we should not expect that these emotions will disappear, just because we reflect on the inexorable chain of causation which led to the criminal’s action. Here Hume does little more than drop this hint; the full development of his sentimentalist moral theory comes in the companion work, his Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals.
 
 15. Section IX: ‘Of the Reason of Animals’ In the wake of the Darwinian revolution, it is no surprise that there should be similarities between animal and human thinking, but in the eighteenth century the suggestion was potentially quite shocking.28 Human reason was commonly thought to be quasi-divine or angelic rather than beastlike, a faculty expressing the essence of our unique immaterial soul, capable of providing transparent insight into the nature of things and operating quite independently of brute animal 28 Darwin’s notebooks of 1838–9record that he read Hume’s section on the reason of animals just at the time that he was developing his theory of evolution.
 
