Hence most of the great philosophers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries (e.g. Descartes, Hobbes, Spinoza, Locke, Leibniz, Hume, and Kant) were attracted to determinism, the view that every event is brought about by antecedent causes and is therefore predictable (at least in principle) from knowledge of prior conditions and the relevant causal laws. But while determinism in the physical realm was relatively unproblematic, in the human realm it threatened to undermine freedom and moral responsibility. Punishment seems appropriate only when some wrong is committedfreely, by an agent who had some choice in the matter. How then could it be right for any judge (human or divine) to punish a wrongdoer, if the act in question was the product of inexorable causal laws, and could have been foreseen by God with absolute certainty before the sinner had even been born?
 
 Many shied away from facing up to this thorny problem; Descartes, for example, is rather vague about whether determinism applies to the immaterial mind. The classic resolution of the dilemma, compatibilism, was most clearly formulated by his contemporary Thomas Hobbes, the first great philosopher to write in the English language and a forthright materialist (who provocatively cited Descartes’s mental ‘immaterial substance’ as a paradigm contradiction in terms). Accepting that the (purely material) world is governed by causal necessitation— what he called ‘the doctrine of necessity’—Hobbes preserved moral freedom by asserting its full compatibility with determinism: Liberty, or Freedome, signifieth (properly) the absence of Opposition; (by Opposition, I mean external Impediments of motion;) . . . aFREE-MAN, is he, that in those things,which by his strength and wit he is able to do,is not hindred to doe what he has a will to. . . . LibertyandNecessityare Consistent . . .
 
 the actions which men voluntarily doe . . . because they proceed fromtheir will, proceed from liberty; and yet, because every act of mans will, and every desire, and inclination proceedeth from some cause, and that from another cause, in a continuall chaine, . . . proceed from necessity. (Leviathan, ch. 21) Hume is widely seen as following Hobbes here, and indeed uses Hobbesian terminology in Section VIII of the Enquiry, ‘Of Liberty and Necessity’, where he presents his own (subtly different) compatibilist approach.
 
 Compatibilism is now very widely accepted, though it remains controversial, and the nexus of problems surrounding free will—one xxii Introduction of the most ancient in metaphysics—is still hotly debated today.
 
