He then becomes tutor to the mad Marquess of Annandale for a year, an unhappy experience.
 
 1745 Second Scottish Jacobite Rebellion on behalf of Charles Edward Stuart, ‘Bonnie Prince Charlie’ or ‘The Young Pretender’ (son of ‘The Old Pretender’ of 1715). Observing from London, Hume does not support the Jacobite cause.
 
 1746 Hume joins General St Clair, in the role of Judge Advocate, on a farcical military expedition to Brittany as part of the War of the Austrian Succession.
 
 1748 The first Enquiry is published in April, under its original title Philosophical Essays concerning Human Understanding. Meanwhile Hume is appointed as secretary to General St Clair on diplomatic missions to Vienna and Turin.
 
 1750 Second edition of the Philosophical Essays, with the third edition appearing in 1756.
 
 1751 After two years living back in Edinburgh, Hume publishes An Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals—the second Enquiry.
 
 1752 Political Discoursespublished, enjoying much wider success than Hume’s philosophical works, and helping to establish the new science of Economics. Meanwhile, he fails to obtain the Chair of Moral Philosophy at Glasgow University.
 
 1752‒7 Hume is appointed Keeper of the Advocates’ Library, Edinburgh, facilitating work on his History of England, whose six volumes are published between 1754and1762.
 
 1756 An attempt is made to excommunicate Hume from the Church of Scotland.
 
 1757 Publication of Four Dissertations, containing The Natural History of Religion,A Dissertation on the Passions, ‘Of Tragedy’, and ‘Of the Standard of Taste’ (the last of these replaced ‘Of Suicide’ and ‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’, which Hume had planned to include but now suppressed for posthumous publication).
 
 1758 Philosophical Essays renamed as An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding, its fourth edition appearing as part of the Essays and Treatises on Several Subjects.
 
 1763‒5 Hume is appointed Secretary to Lord Hertford, British Ambassador in Paris, being lionized in the salons and by the French philosophes.
 
 1766 Invites Jean-Jacques Rousseau to England, escaping persecution in his native Geneva. But the pathologically suspicious Rousseau Chronology lxv accuses Hume of treachery, prompting him to publish an account of the affair to clear his name.
 
