xxiv Introduction religious wars that these competing movements had inspired, enlightenedintellectuals had moved on to a form of Christianity that fully embraced the scientific revolution, with an increasing emphasis on religion as grounded on reason rather than faith. Thus the ancient God of miracles, grace, exclusive revelations, and inexplicable mysteries was largely abandoned in favour of the Great Designer. Specifically Christian doctrines such as the incarnation and resurrection of Jesus were, as always, based on written revelation, with the miracles reported in the Bible playing a crucial role in authenticating both Jesus himself and other biblical figures. But any more recent or controversial revelations (with their divisive doctrinal implications) were downplayed, in favour of an emphasis on natural theology: religion as established by reason and science. From this perspective, the ‘incomparable Mr. Newton’ (as Locke described him) had performed a major service to theology, by revealing the secrets of God’s wonderful creation.
 
 Hence the famous epitaph by the poet Alexander Pope: Nature and Nature’s laws lay hid in night: God said, Let Newton be! and all was light.
 
 Unlike many thinkers in both earlier and later centuries, those of the Enlightenment—at least in Britain—typically saw no conflict between science and religion, but viewed new discoveries as providing yet more evidence of the intricacy, wisdom, and benevolence of God’s handiwork. Science became a religiously informed activity, and reading God’s works from ‘the great book of nature’ was judged a worthy alternative to reading them from the Bible. The Design Argument for God’s existence thus became widely viewed as the strongest pillar of natural religion.13 With God portrayed as the Great Designer, and human reason demonstrating its own impressive powers in revealing His creation, this naturally encouraged the thought that our faculty of reason has a semi-divine quality, substantiating the biblical claim that we are ‘made in the image of God’. Much of our behaviour might be instinctive, or driven by bodily appetites and passions, like that of the other animals. But our reason seemed to be special, providing an insight into rational truth (most obviously in mathematics) that appears to approximate to God’s transparent perception. Of course we are 13 For one of the most famous and elegant statements of the Design Argument, see Part ii of Hume’s Dialogues, in Appendix III, below.
 
