xxxvi Introduction concerning what he calls ‘reasoning concerning matter of fact’, but we shall call ‘factual reasoning’ for short. First, however, there is a vital preliminary. In the first two paragraphs of Section IV, Hume introduces a distinction of enormous importance, between ‘relations of ideas’ and ‘matters of fact’ (a distinction commonly known as ‘Hume’s Fork’). Relations of ideas, as the name implies, can be known a priori, simply by inspecting the nature and internal relations between our ideas, and using either immediate ‘intuition’ (e.g. our direct intellectual grasp that one plus one equals two, or that a square has four sides)or ‘demonstration’ (i.e. a sequence of ‘intuitive’ steps, as for example in the proof of Pythagoras’ Theorem). Such truths can therefore be known with complete certainty.
 
 Matters of fact, by contrast, can be known only a posteriori (i.e. by consulting past experience), since they do not concern just the internal relations between our ideas, but rather how those ideas go together in the actual world (e.g. it is a matter of fact whether the idea of gold coexists ‘externally’ with the idea of a mountain, i.e. whether there is in fact a golden mountain). For this reason there is no internal contradiction in supposing any matter of fact to be otherwise—its falsehood is distinctly conceivable—and it follows that no matter of fact can be demonstrated a priori to be true. Thus no matter of fact is intuitively or demonstratively certain.
 
 Here are some relatively straightforward examples of the two sides of Hume’s distinction: Relations of Ideas Pythagoras’ Theorem (E4.1) 3×5=½×30(E4.1) All bachelors are unmarried A metre contains 100centimetres Matters of Fact The sun will rise tomorrow (E4.2) The sun will not rise tomorrow (E4.2) Stones fall when released in air Impact causes a billiard ball to move Note that although relations of ideas are a priori, and in this sense prior to experience, it does not follow that the ideas they involve are ‘innate’ and in thatsense prior to experience. On Hume’s principles the idea of a bachelor, like all other ideas, is derived from experience Introduction xxxvii (e.
 
