Nor are the earth, water, and other elements, examined by Aristotle, and Hippocrates,* more like to those, which at present lie under our observation, than the men, described byPolybiusand Tacitus,*are to those who now govern the world.
 
 [8] Should a traveller, returning from a far country, bring us an account of men, wholly different from any, with whom we were ever acquainted; men, who were entirely divested of avarice, ambition, or revenge; who knew no pleasure but friendship, generosity, and public spirit; we should immediately, from these circumstances, detect the falsehood, and prove him a liar, with the same certainty as if he had stuffed his narration with stories of centaurs and dragons, miracles and prodigies. And if we would explode any forgery in history, we cannot make use of a more convincing argument, than to prove, that the actions, ascribed to any person, are directly contrary to the course of nature, and that no human motives, in such circumstances,could ever induce him to such a conduct. The veracity of QuintusCurtius is as much to be suspected, when he describes the supernatural courage of Alexander,*by which he was hurried on singly to attack multitudes, as when he describes his supernatural force and activity, by which he was able to resist them. So readily and universally do we acknowledge a uniformity in human motives and actions as well as in the operations of body.
 
 [9] Hence likewise the benefit of that experience, acquired by long life and a variety of business and company, in order to instruct us in the principles of human nature, and regulate our future conduct, as well as speculation. By means of this guide, we mount up to the knowledge of men’s inclinations and motives, from their actions, 85 expressions, and even gestures; and again, descend to the interpretation of their actions from our knowledge of their motives and inclinations.
 
 The general observations, treasured up by a course of experience,give us the clue of human nature, and teach us to unravel all its intricacies.
 
 Pretexts and appearances no longer deceive us. Public declarations pass for the specious colouring of a cause.* And though virtue and honour be allowed their proper weight and authority, that perfect disinterestedness, so often pretended to, is never expected in multitudes and parties; seldom in their leaders; and scarcely even in individuals of any rank or station. But were there no uniformity in human actions, and were every experiment, which we could form of this 62 Section VIII kind, irregular and anomalous, it were impossible to collect any general observations concerning mankind; and no experience, however accurately digested by reflection, would ever serve to any purpose.
 
