Sceptical Solution of these Doubts 39 him by a shorter chain of consequences than any of those, by which we learn the reality of his existence.
 
 [19] Suppose, that the son of a friend, who had been long dead or absent, were presented to us; it is evident, that this object would instantly revive its correlative idea, and recal to our thoughts all past intimacies and familiarities, in more lively colours than they would otherwise have appeared to us. This is another phaenomenon, which seems to prove the principle above-mentioned.
 
 [20] We may observe, that, in these phaenomena, the belief of the correlative object is always presupposed;*without which the relation could have no effect. The influence of the picture supposes, that we believeour friend to have once existed. Contiguity to home can never 54 excite our ideas of home, unless we believethat it really exists. Now I assert, that this belief, where it reaches beyond the memory or senses, is of a similar nature, and arises from similar causes, with the transition of thought and vivacity of conception here explained.
 
 When I throw a piece of dry wood into a fire, my mind is immediately carried to conceive, that it augments, not extinguishes the flame. This transition of thought from the cause to the effect proceeds not from reason. It derives its origin altogether from custom and experience. And as it first begins from an object, present to the senses, it renders the idea or conception of flame more strong and lively than any loose, floating reverie of the imagination. That idea arises immediately. The thought moves instantly towards it, and conveys to it all that force of conception, which is derived from the impression present to the senses. When a sword is levelled at my breast, does not the idea of wound and pain strike me more strongly, than when a glass of wine is presented to me, even though by accident this idea should occur after the appearance of the latter object? But what is there in this whole matter to cause such a strong conception, except only a present object and a customary transition to the idea of another object, which we have been accustomed to conjoin with the former? This is the whole operation of the mind, in all our conclusions concerning matter of fact and existence; and it is a satisfaction tofind some analogies, by which it may be explained. The transition from a present object does in all cases give strength and solidity to the related idea.
 
 [21] Here, then, is a kind of pre-established harmony*between the course of nature and the succession of our ideas; and though the powers 40 Section V and forces, by which the former is governed, be wholly unknown to us; yet our thoughts and conceptions have still, we find, gone on in the 55 same train with the other works of nature.
 
