l Introduction Hume’s main point in Part i of Section X is that there is another factor to put into this balancing operation, which does not depend on the nature of the witnesses, but rather, on the nature of the reported event. If this supposed event is quite contrary to our uniform experience or even apparently miraculous, then that experience itself provides strong inductive evidence against the event’s occurrence.29 Hence in assessing the overall credibility of the testimony, we must balance whatever experience we might have in favour of the reliability of the witnesses, against this contrary evidence: The plain consequence is (and it is a general maxim worthy of our attention),‘That no testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle, unless the testimony be of such a kind, that its falsehood would be more miraculous, than the fact, which it endeavours to establish: And even in that case, there is a mutual destruction of arguments, and the superior only gives us an assurance suitable to that degree of force, which remains, after deducting the inferior.’ (E10.13) Hume can here be seen as anticipating a result that is now very familiar to theoreticians, but all too often ignored more widely: that when assessing the evidence for some event, it is important to take into account the background probabilityof the event itself.30 Hume’s ‘general maxim’ sets a demanding requirement for testimony to establish a miracle. Then in Part ii, he gives four arguments to suggest that this requirement is, in practice, never likely to be satisfied, especially in the case of miracles associated with a religion. First, no miracle in history has in fact been sufficiently well attested by sufficiently many reliable witnesses (E10.15). Secondly, the pleasant passion of surprise and wonder makes miracle stories particularly 29 As we saw above in Section VI, Hume coins the term ‘proof’ for this strongest type of inductive argument, based on totally uniform experience. However, such proofs are not necessarily irresistible, and his discussion of miracles makes very clear that they can differ in strength and potentially conflict (see also his letter at p. 165, below).
 
 30 Suppose, for example, that I am worried about a genetic disease that afflicts one in a million people, and take a test for it which has a 99.9% chance of giving the ‘correct’ result (i.e. if I have the disease, it is 99.9% likely to come out positive, and if I don’t, it is only 0.1% likely to come out positive). Most people would naturally take a positive result as showing that I very probably have the disease. However the one in a million ‘background probability’ outweighs the one in a thousand chance of the test’s getting it wrong, leaving an overall probability that I have the disease, based on this evidence, of only1in1,002. Thus a false test is far more likely than the disease itself.
 
