xlii Introduction 13. Section VII: ‘Of the Idea of Necessary Connexion’ Hume starts Section VII by emphasizing the importance of clarifying our philosophical ideas, focusing particularly on ‘those of power, force, energy, or necessary connexion’ (E 7.3) which are so intimately connected with the vital concept of causation, itself the basis of all reasoning from experience (as we saw in Section IV). Hume’s method of clarifying obscure ideas is to make use of the ‘new microscope or species of optics’ (E 7.4) which the Copy Principle of Section II provides, by inspecting the impression(s) from which those ideas are derived. Thus begins the hunt for the impression of necessary connexion.24 PART I: A Fruitless Search Hume begins with his favourite example of the two billiard balls. We see one billiard ball striking another, see the second one move, no doubt hear a sound; but what we do not perceive in any way through the senses is the necessity that we assume connects the two events together (in that the one event had to be followed by the other). All we see is a sequence of events—we do not see the causal glue that (we assume) binds them, or the powerin the one ball’s movement by which it communicates motion to the other.
 
 Hume proceeds to back up this claim with an important argument, several variations on which will be used in the pages to come: From the first appearance of an object, we never can conjecture what effect will result from it. But were the power or energy of any cause discoverable by the mind, we could foresee the effect, even without experience; and might, at first, pronounce with certainty concerning it, by the mere dint of thought and reasoning. (E7.7) This builds on the sceptical argument of Section IV Part i, which established that all causal knowledge is a posteriori, that nothing about causes and effects can be known in advance of experience.
 
 24 Hume consistently treats ‘power’ and ‘necessary connexion’ as equivalent, sometimes abbreviates the latter to just ‘connexion’ (E7.28), and also equates these with other terms such as ‘force’ and ‘energy’. This suggests that the key idea whose source he is seeking is not strictly that of necessaryconnexion, but rather the wider notion of connexion in general, or a consequentiallink from one thing to another. This also fits with his view, implied by Section VI, that the notion of probability is derived from the same source.
 
