Notes to Pages 25–32 191 4.16 a medium: a middle term in an inference, connecting the premiss(es) with the conclusion. We have now reached the heart of Hume’s famous sceptical argument concerning induction, outlined in §11 of the Introduction, above. Having shown that all factual arguments depend on a supposition of uniformity, he is now asking what basis there could be for such a supposition. It cannot be founded on what we perceive, nor is it known to be true by immediate intuition; hence Hume deduces that it could only be well founded if it is inferable by reasoning that involves at least one intermediate step—some medium. See explanatory note to 4.21.
 
 4.18 moral reasoning: in the first two editions of the Enquiry, Hume refers here to ‘moral or probable Reasonings’. The term is used by Hume to mean reasoning which is less than perfectly certain (delivering ‘probability’ or at best ‘moral certainty’), and the word ‘moral’ carries no connotation ofethicalrelevance. See §10of the Introduction, above.
 
 4.18 demonstrative arguments: arguments that lead with total logicalcertainty from premiss(es) to conclusion, such as valid arguments in mathematics.
 
 See §10of the Introduction, above.
 
 4.19 experimental conclusions: things inferred on the basis of experience.
 
 4.20 I cannot imagine . . . reasoning: Hume understandably overlooks statistical inference, commonplace since the development of mathematical statistics, in which the strength of a conclusion can be shown to depend (in appropriate circumstances) on the size of the statistical sample.
 
 However, it is doubtful whether such inference could provide a solution to Hume’s so-called Problem of Induction, because statistical inference depends on the assumption that the observed sample is representativeor randomly chosen, and this cannot be guaranteed when inferring from past to future.
 
 4.21 the interposing ideas: an allusion to Locke’s Essay, IV. xvii. 2, which spoke of ‘intermediate Ideas’ as forming a chain of inference from premiss to conclusion, constituting either a demonstrative or a probable argument depending on the strength of the links.
 
 SECTION V 5.1 EPICTETUS, and other Stoics: see Glossarial Index.
 
 5.1 ACADEMIC orSCEPTICAL philosophy: see Glossarial Index.
 
 5.3 into this world: Hume briefly summarizes the sceptical argument of Section IV, starting with the Adam thought-experiment.
 
 5.5 CUSTOM orHABIT: see §11of the Introduction, above. As Hume goes on to explain, all he is doing here is giving a name to a causal principle of human nature that he has observed to be operative. We do in fact make factual inferences in response to repeated experience, though he has shown that all such inferences involve a step—namely the supposition of uniformity (5.2)—that cannot be founded on reason. Reason does not ‘engage us’ to make that step, but we evidently make it nonetheless, so it 192 Notes to Pages 32–38 is apparently a basic fact about human nature that we function in this way.
 
