196 Notes to Pages 64–70 We should seek explanations in terms of uniform underlying causes rather than erratic superficial causes.
 
 8.15 A stupid . . . carriage: a dull man is uncharacteristically vivacious.
 
 8.16 Thus it appears . . . nature:Hume perhaps goes too far here, in apparently endorsing a strong form of psychological determinism. For examplethe obliging person of the previous paragraph, who has a toothache, is influenced behaviourally by physicalhappenings in his brain as well as motives.
 
 8.18 politics be a science: one of Hume’s aims in this section is to make the case that human thought and behaviour is fully amenable to scientific explanation, a natural rather than a mysterious phenomenon. The phrase is reminiscent of the title of one of his essays ‘That Politics may be Reduced to a Science’ (1741).
 
 8.19 interest: influence.
 
 8.19 wheel: an instrument of torture.
 
 8.20 Charing-Cross:an area commonly regarded as the centre of London, and now most familiarly associated with Charing Cross railway station.
 
 8.21 what . . . reason: the Introduction, p. xlvii, explains what is going on in this and the next paragraph, where Hume appeals again to his two ‘definitions of cause’ to illuminate the issue of free will.
 
 8.23 a power . . . will: this equates free action with intentionalaction, and is therefore not to be equated with ‘freedom’ in any more everyday sense (e.g. freedom from unwanted rules, legal constraints, or coercive threats). It is therefore dubious to see Hume’s notion of liberty here as equivalent to what in the Treatisehe referred to as ‘liberty of spontaneity, as it is call’d in the schools . . . the most common sense of the word; and . . . that species of liberty, which it concerns us to preserve’ (2.3.2.1).
 
 a prisoner . . . chains: this example suggests that Hume’s intended meaning of ‘liberty’ is excluded only by extreme physical constraint or compulsion, and is entirely compatible with coercive threats. If I give someone access to a bank vault because they threaten my family with a gun, then in this sense I do so freely, because I act intentionally— ‘according to the determinations of my will’—in unlocking the door.
 
 But Hume’s approach can easily accommodate the common-sense idea that I am not blameworthy for doing so. If I am blameless for opening the vault, this is not because I did not act freely. Rather, it is because I did not do anything wrong. In that situation, faced with the alternatives of opening the vault or having my family murdered, opening the vault was not a blameworthy act.
 
 8.25 nothing exists . . . existence: Hume discussed this Causal Maxim in Treatise, 1.3.3 See also explanatory note to 6.1.
 
 8.26 consistent with morality: in the final 1772 and 1777 editions of the Enquiry, ‘morality’ replaced ‘Morality and Religion’. Hume apparently decided to give up the pretence that his discussion of religionlater in the section is anything other than negative.
 
