Introduction xv without matter—becomes an impossibility, so the entire universe must be filled with matter (i.e. the universe is a plenum). But in such a plenum, movement of one piece of matter can happen only if another piece ‘moves out of the way’, and as soon as it itself moves, its place must be taken by yet another piece of matter. Hence all motion through space must involve matter moving in circuits, and Descartes concluded that the universe must be structured by ‘vortices’, or whirlpools of circulating matter. This provides a very elegant explanation of how the planets can be retained in circular motion around the Sun despite their inertial tendency to move in straight lines. The Sun is thus the centre of a giant vortex, with smaller vortices within it ranging from that which carries the Moon around the Earth, down to the minuscule vortices in our own bodies that constitute the mechanisms of these intricate machines.
 
 Aristotelian physics had likewise aspired to make the operations of nature intelligible, by explaining the behaviour of things in purposive terms, but such explanations now came to seem vacuous compared with those of the new science. This is the point of Molière’s clever parody in Act III of his play Le Malade imaginaire(1673): ‘I would like to ask you the cause and reason why opium makes one sleep.’ ‘The reason is that in opium resides a dormitive virtue, of which it is the nature to stupefy the senses.’ Here the appeal to ‘dormitive virtue’ is clearly no more than giving a fancy name to an unknown cause of the observed phenomenon.
 
 Any appearance of explanation is entirely bogus, and most natural philosophers understandably became anxious to distance themselves from such occult qualities. They accordingly aimed to confine their explanations to efficientrather than finalcausation (i.e. processes that bring things about rather than purposes), and to appeal only to causal mechanisms that depend on the types of qualities manifested in experience and whose mode of operation seems intuitively comprehensible, such as size, shape, and motion. All this helps to account for the great influence of Cartesian physics, which operated exclusively by means of mechanicalcausation: interaction between contiguous parts of matter by pressure and impact. Such causation has a reassuring familiarity (since its action can be observed amongst everyday things such as water and billiard balls) and also an apparent intelligibility(in that it operates through physical touching which requires only familiar xvi Introduction geometrical properties).
 
