Introduction li prone to invention and fantasy, all the more so if they are propagated to promote religion (E10.16–19). As the history of forged miracles amply demonstrates, a religious person may lie ‘for the sake of promoting so holy a cause’, or out of vanity, or he may be gullible or swayed by eloquence (since many renounce their reason in questions of religion). Thirdly, miracle stories almost all ‘abound amongst ignorantand barbarous nations’, suggesting that they are indeed products of imagination rather than provable fact (E 10.20–3). Finally, if a miracle is supposed to establish the religion (or sect) to which it is attributed, and since the various religions are incompatible, it follows that the evidence for any miracle will be opposed by the evidence in favour of the far greater number of miracles reported in other religions. Hume illustrates this point (E10.25–7) with some apparently well-evidenced miracles that he is confident his readers will reject, thus suggesting that the dismissive attitude they naturally feel towards miracles associated with the Roman emperor Vespasian (for example) should equally be extended to the Christian miracles they are inclined to accept.
 
 Putting all these points together, ‘Upon the whole . . . it appears, that no testimony for any kind of miracle has ever amounted to a probability, much less to a proof’. Moreover because of the distinctive tendency of religions to propagate bogus miracle stories and to generate fanciful testimony for them, ‘no human testimony can have such force as to prove a miracle, and make it a just foundation for any [popular] system of religion’ (E10.35). Outside a religious context, there could conceivably be sufficient evidence for some kinds of miracles (though perhaps not for a resurrection—E10.37), but if a miracle ‘be ascribed to any new system of religion, . . . this very circumstance would be a full proof of a cheat’ (E10.38). ‘Proof’ here does not imply that religious miracles are logically impossible (cf. n. 29, above); it is simply that our extensive experience of the hopeless unreliability of religiously inspired miracle stories counts decisively against their credibility. An omnipotent deity could, of course, bring about whatever the stories report. But even if God exists, experience remains our only guide to His ways of working, and hence in assessing the stories we are still reduced to comparing the reliability of testimony with the reliability of the apparent laws of nature (E10.38). Even for the theist, custom and induction provide the only route to factual discovery.
 
