That,hesaid,isathingofmorethanmortalknowledge.
 
 Athing,Ireplied,whichIwouldrathercalluseful;thatis,ifsoughtafterwith aviewtothebeautifulandgood;butifpursuedinanyotherspirit,useless.
 
 Verytrue,hesaid.
 
 Now,whenallthesestudiesreachthepointofinter-communionandconnection with one another, and come to be considered in their mutual affinities, then, I think, but not till then, will the pursuit of them have a value for our objects; otherwisethereisnoprofitinthem.
 
 Isuspectso;butyouarespeaking,Socrates,ofavastwork.
 
 Whatdoyoumean? Isaid;thepreludeorwhat? Doyounotknowthatallthis isbutthepreludetotheactualstrainwhichwehavetolearn? Foryousurely wouldnotregardtheskilledmathematicianasadialectician?
 
 Assuredly not, he said; I have hardly ever known a mathematician who was capableofreasoning.
 
 But do you imagine that men who are unable to give and take a reason will havetheknowledgewhichwerequireofthem?
 
 Neithercanthisbesupposed.
 
 Andso, Glaucon, Isaid, wehaveatlastarrivedatthehymnofdialectic. This is that strain which is of the intellect only, but which the faculty of sight will neverthelessbefoundtoimitate;forsight,asyoumayremember,wasimagined byusafterawhiletobeholdtherealanimalsandstars, andlastofallthesun himself. And so with dialectic; when a person starts on the discovery of the absolute by the light of reason only, and without any assistance of sense, and perseveresuntilbypureintelligencehearrivesattheperceptionoftheabsolute good,heatlastfindshimselfattheendoftheintellectualworld,asinthecase ofsightattheendofthevisible.
 
 Exactly,hesaid.
 
 Thenthisistheprogresswhichyoucalldialectic?
 
 True.
 
 Butthereleaseoftheprisonersfromchains,andtheirtranslationfromtheshadowstotheimagesandtothelight,andtheascentfromtheundergroundden tothesun,whileinhispresencetheyarevainlytryingtolookonanimalsand plants and the light of the sun, but are able to perceive even with their weak eyes the images in the water (which are divine), and are the shadows of true existence(notshadowsofimagescastbyalightoffire, whichcomparedwith http://www.idph.net 392 IDPH the sun is only an image)–this power of elevating the highest principle in the soultothecontemplationofthatwhichisbestinexistence,withwhichwemay compare the raising of that faculty which is the very light of the body to the sightofthatwhichisbrightestinthematerialandvisibleworld–thispoweris given,asIwassaying,byallthatstudyandpursuitoftheartswhichhasbeen described.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
