The man who compares grey with black, calls grey white;andthemanwhocomparesabsenceofpainwithpain,callstheabsence ofpainpleasure. Again,hungerandthirstareinanitionsofthebody,ignorance and folly of the soul; and food isthe satisfaction of the one, knowledge of the other. Nowwhichisthepurersatisfaction–thatofeatinganddrinking,orthat of knowledge? Consider the matter thus: The satisfaction of that which has moreexistenceistruerthanofthatwhichhasless.Theinvariableandimmortal hasamorerealexistencethanthevariableandmortal,andhasacorresponding measureofknowledgeandtruth.Thesoul,again,hasmoreexistenceandtruth and knowledge than the body, and is therefore more really satisfied and has a more natural pleasure. Those who feast only on earthly food, are always going at random up to the middle and down again; but they never pass into the true upper world, or have a taste of true pleasure. They are like fatted beasts,fullofgluttonyandsensuality,andreadytokilloneanotherbyreason of their insatiable lust; for they are not filled with true being, and their vessel is leaky (Gorgias). Their pleasures are mere shadows of pleasure, mixed with pain,colouredandintensifiedbycontrast,andthereforeintenselydesired;and men go fighting about them, as Stesichorussays that the Greeks fought about theshadowofHelenatTroy,becausetheyknownotthetruth.
 
 The same may be said of the passionate element:–the desires of the ambitious soul,aswellasofthecovetous,haveaninferiorsatisfaction. Onlywhenunder theguidanceofreasondoeitheroftheotherprinciplesdotheirownbusinessor attainthepleasurewhichisnaturaltothem. Whennotattaining,theycompel theotherpartsofthesoultopursueashadowofpleasurewhichisnottheirs.
 
 And the more distant they are from philosophy and reason, the more distant they willbe from lawand order, and the moreillusive will betheir pleasures.
 
 Thedesiresofloveandtyrannyarethefarthestfromlaw,andthoseoftheking are nearest to it. There is one genuine pleasure, and two spurious ones: the tyrant goes beyond even the latter; he has run away altogether from law and reason. Nor can the measure of his inferiority be told, except in a figure. The tyrantisthethirdremovedfromtheoligarch,andhastherefore,notashadow ofhispleasure,buttheshadowofashadowonly. Theoligarch,again,isthrice removedfromtheking,andthuswegettheformula3x3,whichisthenumber ofasurface,representingtheshadowwhichisthetyrant’spleasure,andifyou like to cube this ’number of the beast,’ you will find that the measure of the difference amounts to 729; the king is 729 times more happy than the tyrant.
 
 And this extraordinary number is NEARLY equal to the number of days and nights in a year (365 x 2 = 730); and is therefore concerned with human life.
 
 Thisistheintervalbetweenagoodandbadmaninhappinessonly: whatmust bethedifferencebetweenthemincomelinessoflifeandvirtue!
 
 Perhaps you may remember some one saying at the beginning of our discussionthattheunjustmanwasprofitedifhehadthereputationofjustice. Now http://www.idph.net 110 IDPH that we know the nature of justice and injustice, let us make an image of the soul,whichwillpersonifyhiswords.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
