Inwhatmanner?
 
 Thus:–Therearetwosubdivisions,inthelowerofwhichthesoulusesthefigures given by the former division as images; the enquiry can only be hypothetical, and instead of going upwards to a principle descends to the other end; in the higher of the two, the soul passes out of hypotheses, and goes up to a principlewhichisabovehypotheses,makingnouseofimagesasintheformer case,butproceedingonlyinandthroughtheideasthemselves.
 
 Idonotquiteunderstandyourmeaning,hesaid.
 
 Then I will try again; you will understand me better when I have made some preliminaryremarks. Youareawarethatstudentsofgeometry,arithmetic,and the kindred sciences assume the odd and the even and the figures and three kindsofanglesandthelikeintheirseveralbranchesofscience;thesearetheir hypotheses, which they and every body are supposed to know, and therefore they do not deign to give any account of them either to themselves or others; buttheybeginwiththem,andgoonuntiltheyarriveatlast,andinaconsistent manner,attheirconclusion?
 
 Yes,hesaid,Iknow.
 
 Anddoyounotknowalsothatalthoughtheymakeuseofthevisibleformsand reasonaboutthem,theyarethinkingnotofthese,butoftheidealswhichthey resemble;notofthefigureswhichtheydraw,butoftheabsolutesquareandthe absolutediameter, andsoon–theformswhichtheydrawormake, andwhich haveshadowsandreflectionsinwateroftheirown,areconvertedbytheminto images,buttheyarereallyseekingtobeholdthethingsthemselves,whichcan onlybeseenwiththeeyeofthemind?
 
 Thatistrue.
 
 And of this kind I spoke as the intelligible, although in the search after it the souliscompelledtousehypotheses;notascendingtoafirstprinciple,because sheisunabletoriseabovetheregionofhypothesis,butemployingtheobjects of which the shadows below are resemblances in their turn as images, they havinginrelationtotheshadowsandreflectionsofthemagreaterdistinctness, andthereforeahighervalue.
 
 I understand, he said, that you are speaking of the province of geometry and thesisterarts.
 
 AndwhenIspeakoftheotherdivisionoftheintelligible,youwillunderstand me to speak of that other sort of knowledge which reason herself attains by thepowerofdialectic,usingthehypothesesnotasfirstprinciples,butonlyas hypotheses–thatistosay,asstepsandpointsofdepartureintoaworldwhichis http://www.idph.net 372 IDPH abovehypotheses,inorderthatshemaysoarbeyondthemtothefirstprinciple of the whole; and clinging to this and then to that which depends on this, by successivestepsshedescendsagainwithouttheaidofanysensibleobject,from ideas,throughideas,andinideassheends.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
