But imagine if he said, "Thrasymachus, what do you mean? If one of the numbers you say can’t be the true answer, does that mean I’m wrong to say a different number that’s not right? Is that what you mean?" How would you reply?

“Just like if the two cases were the same!” he said.

“Why wouldn’t they be?” I answered. “Even if they aren’t, but only seem that way to the person being asked, shouldn’t they say what they think, whether you or I tell them not to or not?”

“So, you’re going to give one of the forbidden answers?”

“I dare say I might, even if it’s risky, if after thinking I believe one of them is right.”

“But what if I give you an answer about justice that’s better than any of these? What should I get for doing that?”

“For me! Like someone who doesn’t know, I must learn from the wise—that’s what I deserve.”

“What, and no payment? Sounds nice!”

“I’ll pay when I have the money,” I said.

“But you have it, Socrates,” said Glaucon. “And you, Thrasymachus, don’t worry about money because we’ll all chip in for Socrates.”

“Yes,” he said, “and then Socrates will do what he always does—refuse to answer himself but break down someone else’s answer.”

“Why, my good friend,” I said, “how can anyone answer who says they know nothing? And if someone who kind of knows something is told by an expert not to say it, what can they do? The natural thing is for someone like you, who says they know, to speak. Will you kindly answer, for the good of everyone here and myself?”

Glaucon and the others agreed with me, and Thrasymachus, as anyone could see, really wanted to speak because he thought he had a great answer and could impress everyone. But at first, he pretended I should answer first; finally, he agreed to start. “Look,” he said, “this is Socrates’ wisdom—he won’t teach himself but goes around learning from others, and never even says thank you.”

“It’s true I learn from others,” I replied, “but I’m not ungrateful. I have no money, so I pay with praise, which is all I have. You’ll soon see how ready I am to praise anyone who speaks well when you answer, because I expect you will.”
