They say there are lots of books written by Musaeus and Orpheus, who were children of the Moon and the Muses. According to these books, people perform rituals that not only convince individuals but whole cities that sins can be forgiven through sacrifices and fun activities. These fill empty times and serve both the living and the dead. The rituals for the dead are called mysteries, and they believe these help souls escape the pains of hell. But if we ignore these rituals, no one knows what will happen to us.

He continued: Now, when young people hear all this about right and wrong, and how gods and people think about them, how do you think it affects their minds, my dear Socrates? I mean the quick-witted ones who, like bees, quickly check everything they hear and try to decide what kind of people they should be and how they should live to have the best life.

Probably, the youth will think in the words of Pindar— “Can I climb to the top by being fair or by cheating, to build a strong home for all my days?” People say that if I’m really fair and not just pretending, there’s no real profit, only pain and loss. But if, even though I’m unfair, I seem fair, then a heavenly life is promised to me.

Since, as philosophers show, appearances control the truth and rule happiness, I must focus on appearances. I’ll make a picture and shadow of virtue to be the outside of my house; behind it, I’ll hide the sly and tricky fox, like Archilochus, the greatest wise man, advises. But someone might say hiding badness is often hard. To that, I answer, nothing great is easy.

Still, this shows us the path we should take if we want to be happy. To hide things, we’ll form secret clubs and political groups. There are also teachers of speech who teach how to persuade courts and crowds; so, partly by talking and partly by force, I’ll make illegal money and not get punished.

But I hear a voice saying gods can’t be fooled or forced. What if there are no gods? Or what if they don’t care about humans? Then why should we worry about hiding things? And even if there are gods who care, we only know them from stories and family trees told by poets. These poets are the very people who say gods can be influenced and changed by sacrifices and kind requests.
