Maybe people won’t believe that a person like this kind of artist really exists. What would they doubt? That a philosopher truly loves the truth and is like the best kind of person? And if they agree with that, will they still argue with us about making philosophers our rulers? Probably not as much. So let’s say they accept this idea. Still, someone might wonder how likely it is that a king’s son would become a philosopher. We know it’s easy for them to be spoiled, but over many years, maybe there could be one who isn’t—and just one is enough. If a king’s son were a philosopher and had citizens who listened to him, he could create the perfect government. So, we can say our laws are not only great but also possible, even if they’re hard to follow.

I didn’t avoid the tough questions about women and children before. Now I’ll be smarter and admit we have to answer another big question: How should we educate our guardians?

We agreed that guardians should love their country and be tested through tough times, like dealing with pain and pleasure. Those who come out pure and stick to their beliefs should get rewards in life and even after death. But then the argument changed direction. I hesitated to say this, but I will now: our guardians must be philosophers. You remember all the opposite qualities philosophers have, making them hard to find in one person! Being smart and brave doesn’t always go together; some fearless people don’t like hard thinking. Yet, we need all these traits. So, as we said before, the person who wants to be a guardian must be tested through pleasures and dangers. Now we must add that they also need to learn the deepest knowledge. You might remember we talked about virtues before and agreed not to explore them deeply. You thought it was enough. But is it really enough when we still don’t understand everything? Of all people, the guardian must never give up searching for the truth. They must be ready to take the longer path, or they will never reach the highest level above the four virtues. And they need to know these virtues clearly, not just roughly.

(It’s strange that we pay so much attention to small details but don’t care as much about the biggest truths!) “What are these highest truths?” You might pretend you don’t know, even though you’ve often heard me talk about the idea of the good. We don’t know much about it, but without it, even if someone wins the world, it means nothing to them! Some people think the good is wisdom, but that’s confusing—because they say good is wisdom, and wisdom is about the good. Others say the good is pleasure, but that’s silly because there are both good pleasures and bad pleasures.
