And with suchadiettheymaybeexpectedtoliveinpeaceandhealthtoagoodoldage, andbequeathasimilarlifetotheirchildrenafterthem.
 
 Yes, Socrates, he said, and if you were providing for a city of pigs, how else wouldyoufeedthebeasts?
 
 Butwhatwouldyouhave,Glaucon? Ireplied.
 
 Why, hesaid, youshouldgivethemtheordinaryconveniencesoflife. People who are to be comfortable are accustomed to lie on sofas, and dine off tables, andtheyshouldhavesaucesandsweetsinthemodernstyle.
 
 Yes,Isaid,nowIunderstand: thequestionwhichyouwouldhavemeconsider is,notonlyhowaState,buthowaluxuriousStateiscreated;andpossiblythere isnoharminthis,forinsuchaStateweshallbemorelikelytoseehowjustice andinjusticeoriginate. Inmyopinionthetrueandhealthyconstitutionofthe State is the one which I have described. But if you wish also to see a State at fever-heat, I have no objection. For I suspect that many will not be satisfied with the simpler way of life. They will be for adding sofas, and tables, and otherfurniture; alsodainties, andperfumes, andincense, andcourtesans, and cakes, all these not of one sort only, but in every variety; we must go beyond thenecessariesofwhichIwasatfirstspeaking,suchashouses,andclothes,and shoes: theartsofthepainterandtheembroidererwillhavetobesetinmotion, andgoldandivoryandallsortsofmaterialsmustbeprocured.
 
 True,hesaid.
 
 Then we must enlarge our borders; for the original healthy State is no longer sufficient. Nowwillthecityhavetofillandswellwithamultitudeofcallings which are not required by any natural want; such as the whole tribe of hunters and actors, of whom one large class have to do with forms and colours; another will be the votaries of music–poets and their attendant train of rhapsodists, players, dancers, contractors; also makers of divers kinds of articles, includingwomen’sdresses. Andweshallwantmoreservants. Willnottutors bealsoinrequest, andnurseswetanddry, tirewomenandbarbers, aswellas confectionersandcooks;andswineherds,too,whowerenotneededandthereforehadnoplaceintheformereditionofourState,butareneedednow? They mustnotbeforgotten: andtherewillbeanimalsofmanyotherkinds,ifpeople eatthem.
 
 Certainly.
 
 And living in this way we shall have much greater need of physicians than before?
 
 http://www.idph.net 226 IDPH Muchgreater.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
