And the education which we give them will be the very best, far superior to that of cobblers, and will train up the very best women, and nothing can be more advantageous to the State than this. Therefore let them strip, clothed in theirchastity,andshareinthetoilsofwarandinthedefenceoftheircountry; hewholaughsatthemisafoolforhispains.
 
 The first wave is past, and the argument is compelled to admit that men and womenhavecommondutiesandpursuits.Asecondandgreaterwaveisrolling in–communityofwivesandchildren; isthiseitherexpedientorpossible? The expediencyIdonotdoubt;Iamnotsosureofthepossibility.’Nay,Ithinkthata considerabledoubtwillbeentertainedonbothpoints.’Imeanttohaveescaped the trouble of proving the first, but as you have detected the little stratagem I mustevensubmit.Onlyallowmetofeedmyfancylikethesolitaryinhiswalks, withadreamofwhatmightbe, andthenIwillreturntothequestionofwhat canbe.
 
 In the first place our rulers will enforce the laws and make new ones where theyarewanted,andtheiralliesorministerswillobey. You,aslegislator,have alreadyselectedthemen;andnowyoushallselectthewomen. Aftertheselection has been made, they will dwell in common houses and have their meals incommon,andwillbebroughttogetherbyanecessitymorecertainthanthat ofmathematics. Buttheycannotbeallowedtoliveinlicentiousness;thatisan unholything,whichtherulersaredeterminedtoprevent. Fortheavoidanceof this,holymarriagefestivalswillbeinstituted,andtheirholinesswillbeinproportiontotheirusefulness. Andhere,Glaucon,Ishouldliketoask(asIknow thatyouareabreederofbirdsandanimals),Doyounottakethegreatestcare in the mating? ’Certainly.’ And there is no reason to suppose that less care is requiredinthemarriageofhumanbeings. Butthenourrulersmustbeskilful physicians of the State, for they will often need a strong dose of falsehood in order to bring about desirable unions between their subjects. The good must bepairedwiththegood,andthebadwiththebad,andtheoffspringoftheone must be reared, and of the other destroyed; in this way the flock will be preservedinprimecondition. Hymenealfestivalswillbecelebratedattimesfixed withaneyetopopulation,andthebridesandbridegroomswillmeetatthem; and by an ingenious system of lots the rulers will contrive that the brave and thefaircometogether,andthatthoseofinferiorbreedarepairedwithinferiors– thelatterwillascribetochancewhatisreallytheinventionoftherulers. And whenchildrenareborn,theoffspringofthebraveandfairwillbecarriedtoan enclosureinacertainpartofthecity,andthereattendedbysuitablenurses;the rest will be hurried away to places unknown. The mothers will be brought to thefoldandwillsucklethechildren;carehowevermustbetakenthatnoneof themrecognisetheirownoffspring; andifnecessaryothernursesmayalsobe http://www.idph.net IDPH 59 hired.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
