Butallthisisreversedinthecaseof theunjustman. Iamspeaking,asbefore,ofinjusticeonalargescaleinwhich the advantage of the unjust is most apparent; and my meaning will be most clearly seen if we turn to that highest form of injustice in which the criminal is the happiest of men, and the sufferers or those who refuse to do injustice are the most miserable–that is to say tyranny, which by fraud and force takes away the property of others, not little by little but wholesale; comprehending in one, things sacred as well as profane, private and public; for which acts of wrong, if he were detected perpetrating any one of them singly, he would be punishedandincurgreatdisgrace–theywhodosuchwronginparticularcases arecalledrobbersoftemples,andman-stealersandburglarsandswindlersand thieves. But when a man besides taking away the money of the citizens has made slaves of them, then, instead of these names of reproach, he is termed happy and blessed, not only by the citizens but by all who hear of his having achievedtheconsummationofinjustice.Formankindcensureinjustice,fearing thattheymaybethevictimsofitandnotbecausetheyshrinkfromcommitting it. And thus, as I have shown, Socrates, injustice, when on a sufficient scale, hasmorestrengthandfreedomandmasterythanjustice;and,asIsaidatfirst, justiceistheinterestofthestronger,whereasinjusticeisaman’sownprofitand interest.
 
 Thrasymachus,whenhehadthusspoken,having,likeabath-man,delugedour ears with his words, had a mind to go away. But the company would not let him;theyinsistedthatheshouldremainanddefendhisposition;andImyself added my own humble request that he would not leave us. Thrasymachus, I said to him, excellent man, how suggestive are your remarks! And are you going to run away before you have fairly taught or learned whether they are trueornot? Istheattempttodeterminethewayofman’slifesosmallamatter in your eyes–to determine how life may be passed by each one of us to the greatestadvantage?
 
 AnddoIdifferfromyou,hesaid,astotheimportanceoftheenquiry?
 
 You appear rather, I replied, to have no care or thought about us, Thrasymachus–whether we live better or worse from not knowing what you say you know, is to you a matter of indifference. Prithee, friend, do not keep your knowledge to yourself; we are a large party; and any benefit which you conferuponuswillbeamplyrewarded. FormyownpartIopenlydeclarethat Iamnotconvinced,andthatIdonotbelieveinjusticetobemoregainfulthan justice, even if uncontrolled and allowed to have free play. For, granting that theremaybeanunjustmanwhoisabletocommitinjusticeeitherbyfraudor force,stillthisdoesnotconvincemeofthesuperioradvantageofinjustice,and http://www.idph.net IDPH 197 there may be others who are in the same predicament with myself.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
