Rich and educated people have not liked these ideas and have even been afraid of them. They have been happy to see attempts to put these ideas into action fail. But since these ideas come from one of the smartest people ever, who did a lot to improve morals and religion, they deserve more respect from us.

We might need to explain to the public, like Plato does with poetry, that we don’t want to harm current systems. There are serious mistakes in these ideas, but they also contain some truth. Because of this, they deserve careful thought. Sometimes, half of an idea can be better than the whole thing. That “half” can help us understand human nature better.

The first strange idea is about sharing all property, which is mentioned briefly near the end of the third Book. It seems to apply only to the guardians, as Aristotle notes, with no mention of other groups. But this missing detail isn’t very important and probably comes from the way the book was planned, which didn’t allow for more explanation.

Aristotle criticized the idea of sharing property because it seems to stop people from working hard and removes kindness. Today, many writers avoid the topic because most people think it was already decided a long time ago.

But we must remember that the idea of property being “sacred” is stronger now than it was in ancient times. The world has gotten older and more set in its ways. Early societies often shared land, either as a tribe or town, and this might have been the original way land was owned.

Ancient lawmakers created different ways to divide land among citizens. Aristotle said some nations shared land and divided the crops, while others divided land but shared the crops. Problems like debt and unequal property were worse in ancient times than now. Also, wars, revolutions, taxes, and laws caused property to change hands more often. Because of this, property was less permanent and less “sacred.”

Early Christians are believed to have shared their property, and this idea is supported by the words of Christ himself. It has been seen as a perfect ideal in almost all parts of the Church’s history.

There have also been modern people who have made communism into a kind of religion. In every time of religious excitement, ideas like Wycliffe’s “inheritance of grace” have been popular. Similar ideas, but stronger and more violent, have appeared in politics. The message of peace in the Gospel has sometimes been turned into a call for rebellion.

It is hard to say how Plato’s ideas affected people of his time; they might have seemed just like an extreme version of the Spartan way of life.
