Thenletusenactthislawalsoforourguardians:–thattheyareneithertodevastatethelandsofHellenesnortoburntheirhouses.
 
 Agreed; and we may agree also in thinking that these, like all our previous enactments,areverygood.
 
 ButstillImustsay,Socrates,thatifyouareallowedtogooninthiswayyouwill entirelyforgettheotherquestionwhichatthecommencementofthisdiscussion youthrustaside:–Issuchanorderofthingspossible,andhow,ifatall?ForIam quite ready to acknowledge that the plan which you propose, if only feasible, woulddoallsortsofgoodtotheState. Iwilladd,whatyouhaveomitted,that your citizens will be the bravest of warriors, and will never leave their ranks, fortheywillallknowoneanother, andeachwillcalltheotherfather, brother, son; and if you suppose the women to join their armies, whether in the same rank or in the rear, either as a terror to the enemy, or as auxiliaries in case of need, I know that they will then be absolutely invincible; and there are many domestic advantages which might also be mentioned and which I also fully acknowledge: but, as I admit all these advantages and as many more as you please, ifonlythisStateofyoursweretocomeintoexistence, weneedsayno more about them; assuming then the existence of the State, let us now turn to thequestionofpossibilityandwaysandmeans–therestmaybeleft.
 
 If I loiter for a moment, you instantly make a raid upon me, I said, and have nomercy;Ihavehardlyescapedthefirstandsecondwaves,andyouseemnot tobeawarethatyouarenowbringinguponmethethird,whichisthegreatest andheaviest. Whenyouhaveseenandheardthethirdwave, Ithinkyouwill be more considerate and will acknowledge that some fear and hesitation was naturalrespectingaproposalsoextraordinaryasthatwhichIhavenowtostate andinvestigate.
 
 The more appeals of this sort which you make, he said, the more determined arewethatyoushalltellushowsuchaStateispossible: speakoutandatonce.
 
 Letmebeginbyremindingyouthatwefoundourwayhitherinthesearchafter justiceandinjustice.
 
 True,hereplied;butwhatofthat?
 
 Iwasonlygoingtoaskwhether,ifwehavediscoveredthem,wearetorequire that the just man should in nothing fail of absolute justice; or may we be satisfiedwithanapproximation,andtheattainmentinhimofahigherdegreeof justicethanistobefoundinothermen?
 
 Theapproximationwillbeenough.
 
 http://www.idph.net 332 IDPH We were enquiring into the nature of absolute justice and into the character of the perfectly just, and into injustice and the perfectly unjust, that we might haveanideal.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
