Or theoccupationtowhichhedevoteshimselfmaybeofanoppositekind,andhe mayhavetheothersortoflameness.
 
 Certainly,hesaid.
 
 And as to truth, I said, is not a soul equally to be deemed halt and lame which hates voluntary falsehood and is extremely indignant at herself and others whentheytelllies,butispatientofinvoluntaryfalsehood,anddoesnotmind wallowing like a swinish beast in the mire of ignorance, and has no shame at beingdetected?
 
 Tobesure.
 
 And, again, in respect of temperance, courage, magnificence, and every other virtue, should we not carefully distinguish between the true son and the bastard? forwherethereisnodiscernmentofsuchqualitiesstatesandindividuals unconsciously err; and the state makes a ruler, and the individual a friend, of onewho,beingdefectiveinsomepartofvirtue,isinafigurelameorabastard.
 
 Thatisverytrue,hesaid.
 
 All these things, then, will have to be carefully considered by us; and if only those whom we introduce to this vast system of education and training are sound in body and mind, justice herself will have nothing to say against us, and we shall be the saviours of the constitution and of the State; but, if our pupilsaremenofanotherstamp,thereversewillhappen,andweshallpoura stillgreaterfloodofridiculeonphilosophythanshehastoendureatpresent.
 
 Thatwouldnotbecreditable.
 
 Certainly not, I said; and yet perhaps, in thus turning jest into earnest I am equallyridiculous.
 
 Inwhatrespect?
 
 I had forgotten, I said, that we were not serious, and spoke with too much excitement.ForwhenIsawphilosophysoundeservedlytrampledunderfootof menIcouldnothelpfeelingasortofindignationattheauthorsofherdisgrace: andmyangermademetoovehement.
 
 Indeed! Iwaslistening,anddidnotthinkso.
 
 But I, who am the speaker, felt that I was. And now let me remind you that, althoughinourformerselectionwechoseoldmen,wemustnotdosointhis.
 
 Solonwasunderadelusionwhenhesaidthatamanwhenhegrowsoldmay learnmanythings–forhecannomorelearnmuchthanhecanrunmuch;youth http://www.idph.net 396 IDPH isthetimeforanyextraordinarytoil.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
