He might study the profession or business he is involved in from a thoughtful point of view. He could make famous writers and thinkers like Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Plato, and Bacon his friends and companions in life. He might also get chances to hear a great teacher speak in person. He could choose to investigate some part of history or a strange natural event. Spending an hour a day on these scientific or literary activities will give him as many facts as his memory can hold and will bring him a pleasure he won’t regret (Timaeus). But he should be careful not to become a slave to strange ideas or chase after something that isn’t real because of ignorance or pride, like pretending to be a poet or acting like a philosopher. He should know his own limits. It’s better to build up the mind slowly, moving quietly from one thing to another, gaining new skills and interests without noticing, than to make big plans that will never come true.

But maybe, as Plato would say, “This is part of another subject” (Tim.). Still, we can defend our side topic by his example (Theaet.).

We were surprised to notice that the progress of nations or the natural growth of institutions, which are common topics in modern political philosophy, hardly ever caught the attention of Plato and Aristotle. The ancient people knew that human affairs could change a lot; they often thought about the fall of cities and empires (Plato, Statesman, and Sulpicius’ Letter to Cicero). They believed that fate and chance were real forces, almost like people, and had a big role in political events. Wise men like Thucydides thought that “what has happened before will happen again,” and that some idea of the future could be learned from the past. They also dreamed of a Golden Age that once existed, might exist somewhere unknown, or could come back in the far future. But the idea of a state growing steadily, getting smarter, better at arts, and where citizens learned by doing their political duties, seemed never to have been part of their hopes. Such a state had never been seen, so they couldn’t imagine it. Their experience (Aristotle, Metaphysics; Plato, Laws) made them believe that civilizations went through cycles where arts were discovered and lost many times, cities were destroyed and rebuilt again and again, and natural disasters like floods and volcanoes changed the earth’s surface.

Tradition told them about many times when mankind was destroyed and only a small group survived. The world began again after a flood and was rebuilt from its broken pieces. They also knew about ancient empires like Egypt or Assyria, but had never seen them grow. Just like us, they couldn’t imagine the kind of people who lived before those empires.
