But whether it’s true or not, I think that in the world of knowledge, the idea of what is good comes last and is only understood with effort. When people do understand it, they believe it is the source of all things beautiful and right. It is like the parent of light and the ruler of light in the world we can see. It is also the source of reason and truth in the mind. Anyone who wants to act wisely, whether in public or in private, must keep their focus on this idea.

I agree, he said, as much as I can understand you.

Also, I said, you shouldn’t be surprised that people who reach this perfect understanding don’t want to come back to deal with human problems. Their souls always want to go back to the higher world where they want to live. This desire makes sense if we trust our story.

Yes, very natural.

And is it surprising when someone who has been thinking about divine things acts badly in the messy world? If their eyes are still adjusting and they haven’t gotten used to the darkness around them, they might act foolishly. For example, if they have to argue in court or deal with people who only see copies or shadows of true justice, they will struggle to meet those people’s ideas of justice.

Nothing surprising at all, he replied.

Anyone with common sense will remember that eyes can get confused for two reasons: either because they are coming out of bright light or going into bright light. This is true for the mind’s eye as well as the physical eye. So, when you see someone who looks confused or weak in their vision, don’t laugh right away. First, ask if their soul has just come out of a brighter world and can’t see well because it’s not used to the darkness. Or maybe they have just come from darkness into the light and are blinded by too much brightness. You should think the one who just came out of the light is lucky, and feel sorry for the one who just came from the light into the dark. But if you want to laugh at someone, it makes more sense to laugh at the person coming from below into the light than at the person going from the light back into the dark.

That’s a very fair point, he said.

But if I’m right, then some teachers must be wrong when they say they can put knowledge into a soul that didn’t have it before, like putting sight into blind eyes.

They definitely say that, he replied.
