But then a director can hardly be found, and even if he could, as mattersnowstand, thestudents, whoareveryconceited, wouldnotattendto him. That,however,wouldbeotherwiseifthewholeStatebecamethedirector ofthesestudiesandgavehonourtothem;thendiscipleswouldwanttocome, and there would be continuous and earnest search, and discoveries would be made; since even now, disregarded as they are by the world, and maimed of their fair proportions, and although none of their votaries can tell the use of them,stillthesestudiesforcetheirwaybytheirnaturalcharm,andverylikely, iftheyhadthehelpoftheState,theywouldsomedayemergeintolight.
 
 Yes,hesaid,thereisaremarkablecharminthem. ButIdonotclearlyunderstandthechangeintheorder.Firstyoubeganwithageometryofplanesurfaces?
 
 Yes,Isaid.
 
 Andyouplacedastronomynext,andthenyoumadeastepbackward?
 
 Yes,andIhavedelayedyoubymyhurry;theludicrousstateofsolidgeometry, which,innaturalorder,shouldhavefollowed,mademepassoverthisbranch andgoontoastronomy,ormotionofsolids.
 
 True,hesaid.
 
 ThenassumingthatthesciencenowomittedwouldcomeintoexistenceifencouragedbytheState,letusgoontoastronomy,whichwillbefourth.
 
 Therightorder,hereplied. Andnow,Socrates,asyourebukedthevulgarmannerinwhichIpraisedastronomybefore,mypraiseshallbegiveninyourown spirit. For every one, as I think, must see that astronomy compels the soul to lookupwardsandleadsusfromthisworldtoanother.
 
 Everyonebutmyself,Isaid;toeveryoneelsethismaybeclear,butnottome.
 
 Andwhatthenwouldyousay?
 
 I should rather say that those who elevate astronomy into philosophy appear tometomakeuslookdownwardsandnotupwards.
 
 Whatdoyoumean? heasked.
 
 You,Ireplied,haveinyourmindatrulysublimeconceptionofourknowledge of the things above. And I dare say that if a person were to throw his head backandstudythefrettedceiling,youwouldstillthinkthathismindwasthe percipient, and not his eyes. And you are very likely right, and I may be a simpleton: but, in my opinion, that knowledge only which is of being and of the unseen can make the soul look upwards, and whether a man gapes at the heavens or blinks on the ground, seeking to learn some particular of sense, I would deny that he can learn, for nothing of that sort is matter of science; his http://www.idph.net IDPH 389 soulislookingdownwards,notupwards,whetherhiswaytoknowledgeisby waterorbyland,whetherhefloats,oronlyliesonhisback.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
