Listen, then, he said; I proclaim that justice is nothing else than the interest of thestronger. Andnowwhydoyounotpraiseme? Butofcourseyouwon’t.
 
 Letmefirstunderstandyou,Ireplied. Justice,asyousay,istheinterestofthe stronger. What, Thrasymachus, is the meaning of this? You cannot mean to saythatbecausePolydamas,thepancratiast,isstrongerthanweare,andfinds theeatingofbeefconducivetohisbodilystrength,thattoeatbeefistherefore equallyforourgoodwhoareweakerthanheis,andrightandjustforus?
 
 That’s abominable of you, Socrates; you take the words in the sense which is mostdamagingtotheargument.
 
 Notatall,mygoodsir,Isaid;Iamtryingtounderstandthem;andIwishthat youwouldbealittleclearer.
 
 Well,hesaid,haveyouneverheardthatformsofgovernmentdiffer;thereare tyrannies,andtherearedemocracies,andtherearearistocracies?
 
 Yes,Iknow.
 
 Andthegovernmentistherulingpowerineachstate?
 
 Certainly.
 
 Andthedifferentformsofgovernmentmakelawsdemocratical,aristocratical, tyrannical,withaviewtotheirseveralinterests;andtheselaws,whicharemade by them for their own interests, are the justice which they deliver to their subjects, and him who transgresses them they punish as a breaker of the law, and unjust. And that is what I mean when I say that in all states there is the same principle of justice, which is the interest of the government; and as the governmentmustbesupposedtohavepower, theonlyreasonableconclusion is,thateverywherethereisoneprincipleofjustice,whichistheinterestofthe stronger.
 
 Now I understand you, I said; and whether you are right or not I will try to discover. Butletmeremark,thatindefiningjusticeyouhaveyourselfusedthe word ’interest’ which you forbade me to use. It is true, however, that in your definitionthewords’ofthestronger’areadded.
 
 Asmalladdition,youmustallow,hesaid.
 
 Greatorsmall,nevermindaboutthat: wemustfirstenquirewhetherwhatyou aresayingisthetruth. Nowwearebothagreedthatjusticeisinterestofsome sort,butyougoontosay’ofthestronger’;aboutthisadditionIamnotsosure, andmustthereforeconsiderfurther.
 
 http://www.idph.net IDPH 191 Proceed.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
