Awholenationmaybewiserthananyonemaninit;ormaybeanimatedbysomecommonopinionorfeelingwhichcouldnotequallyhaveaffected the mind of a single person, or may have been inspired by a leader of genius toperformactsmorethanhuman. Platodoesnotappeartohaveanalysedthe complications which arise out of the collective action of mankind. Neither is he capable of seeing that analogies, though specious as arguments, may often havenofoundationinfact,orofdistinguishingbetweenwhatisintelligibleor vividly present to the mind, and what is true. In this respect he is far below Aristotle, who is comparatively seldom imposed upon by false analogies. He cannotdisentangletheartsfromthevirtues–atleastheisalwaysarguingfrom one to the other. His notion of music is transferred from harmony of sounds toharmonyoflife: inthisheisassistedbytheambiguitiesoflanguageaswell asbytheprevalenceofPythagoreannotions. Andhavingonceassimilatedthe state to the individual, he imagines that he will find the succession of states paralleledinthelivesofindividuals.
 
 Still, through this fallacious medium, a real enlargement of ideas is attained.
 
 When the virtues as yet presented no distinct conception to the mind, a great advancewasmadebythecomparisonofthemwiththearts;forvirtueispartly art, andhasanoutwardformaswellasaninwardprinciple. Theharmonyof musicaffordsalivelyimageoftheharmoniesoftheworldandofhumanlife, and may be regarded as a splendid illustration which was naturally mistaken forarealanalogy. Inthesamewaytheidentificationofethicswithpoliticshas atendencytogivedefinitenesstoethics,andalsotoelevateandennoblemen’s notionsoftheaimsofgovernmentandofthedutiesofcitizens;forethicsfrom one point of view may be conceived as an idealized law and politics; and politics, as ethics reduced to the conditions of human society. There have been evils which have arisen out of the attempt to identify them, and this has led to the separation or antagonism of them, which has been introduced by modern political writers. But we may likewise feel that something has been lost intheirseparation,andthattheancientphilosopherswhoestimatedthemoral andintellectualwellbeingofmankindfirst,andthewealthofnationsandindividuals second, may have a salutary influence on the speculations of modern times. Manypoliticalmaximsoriginateinareactionagainstanoppositeerror; andwhentheerrorsagainstwhichtheyweredirectedhavepassedaway,they inturnbecomeerrors.
 
 3. Plato’sviewsofeducationareinseveralrespectsremarkable;liketherestof theRepublictheyarepartlyGreekandpartlyideal,beginningwiththeordinary curriculum of the Greek youth, and extending to after-life. Plato is the first writer who distinctly says that education is to comprehend the whole of life, andtobeapreparationforanotherinwhicheducationbeginsagain. Thisisthe http://www.idph.net IDPH 153 continuousthreadwhichrunsthroughtheRepublic,andwhichmorethanany otherofhisideasadmitsofanapplicationtomodernlife.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
