Sir G.C. Lewis in the Classical Museum.), is probably later than the age of Plato. The natural divisions are five in number;–(1) Book I and the first half of Book II down to the paragraphbeginning,’IhadalwaysadmiredthegeniusofGlauconandAdeimantus,’whichisintroductory;thefirstbookcontainingarefutationofthepopularandsophisticalnotionsofjustice,andconcluding,likesomeoftheearlier Dialogues,withoutarrivingatanydefiniteresult. Tothisisappendedarestatement of the nature of justice according to common opinion, and an answer isdemandedtothequestion–Whatisjustice,strippedofappearances? Thesecond division (2) includes the remainder of the second and the whole of the thirdandfourthbooks,whicharemainlyoccupiedwiththeconstructionofthe first State and the first education. The third division (3) consists of the fifth, sixth, and seventh books, in which philosophy rather than justice is the subjectofenquiry,andthesecondStateisconstructedonprinciplesofcommunism andruledbyphilosophers,andthecontemplationoftheideaofgoodtakesthe place of the social and political virtues. In the eighth and ninth books (4) the perversions of States and of the individuals who correspond to them are reviewedinsuccession;andthenatureofpleasureandtheprincipleoftyrannyare furtheranalysedintheindividualman. Thetenthbook(5)istheconclusionof the whole, in which the relations of philosophy to poetry are finally determined,andthehappinessofthecitizensinthislife,whichhasnowbeenassured, iscrownedbythevisionofanother.
 
 Oramoregeneraldivisionintotwopartsmaybeadopted; thefirst(BooksIIV) containing the description of a State framed generally in accordance with Hellenicnotionsofreligionandmorality,whileinthesecond(BooksV-X)the HellenicStateistransformedintoanidealkingdomofphilosophy,ofwhichall othergovernmentsaretheperversions. Thesetwopointsofviewarereallyopposed, andtheoppositionisonlyveiledbythegeniusofPlato. TheRepublic, like the Phaedrus (see Introduction to Phaedrus), is an imperfect whole; the higherlightofphilosophybreaksthroughtheregularityoftheHellenictemple, whichatlastfadesawayintotheheavens.Whetherthisimperfectionofstructurearisesfromanenlargementoftheplan;orfromtheimperfectreconcilement inthewriter’sownmindofthestrugglingelementsofthoughtwhicharenow firstbroughttogetherbyhim;or,perhaps,fromthecompositionoftheworkat different times–are questions, like the similar question about the Iliad and the Odyssey,whichareworthasking,butwhichcannothaveadistinctanswer. In theageofPlatotherewasnoregularmodeofpublication,andanauthorwould have the less scruple in altering or adding to a work which was known only to a few of his friends. There is no absurdity in supposing that he may have laidhislaboursasideforatime,orturnedfromoneworktoanother;andsuch interruptionswouldbemorelikelytooccurinthecaseofalongthanofashort writing. In all attempts to determine the chronological order of the Platonic writingsoninternalevidence,thisuncertaintyaboutanysingleDialoguebeing http://www.idph.net IDPH 9 composedatonetimeisadisturbingelement,whichmustbeadmittedtoaffect longerworks,suchastheRepublicandtheLaws,morethanshorterones.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
