None at all.

I don’t even want to talk about the small, mean things they won’t have to deal with anymore because they’re not important. Like how poor people have to flatter rich people, or all the hard work and stress of raising a family and finding money for the house. Borrowing money and then refusing to pay it back, getting money any way they can, and giving it to women and slaves to hold onto—there are lots of bad things people go through like this, but they’re small and obvious and not worth mentioning.

Yes, he said, you don’t need eyes to see that.

And they will be freed from all these problems, and their life will be as blessed as Olympic winners, or even more blessed.

How come?

The Olympic winner, I said, is seen as happy because they get part of the good things that citizens get. But our citizens have won an even better victory and get better support from the public. Their victory is saving the whole State. The crown they and their children get is everything life needs; they get rewards from their country while alive, and after death, they get an honorable burial.

Yes, he said, those are great rewards.

Do you remember, I said, how before someone without a name said we were making our guardians unhappy—they had nothing but could have had anything? We replied that maybe later we’d think about that, but for now, we want to make our guardians real guardians, and we are building the State to make everyone happy, not just one group?

Yes, I remember.

So what do you think now that our protectors’ lives are better and nobler than Olympic winners—can the life of shoemakers, other workers, or farmers compare?

Definitely not.

Also, I should say again what I said before: if any of our guardians try to be happy in a way that makes them stop being guardians, and they are not happy with this safe and peaceful life—which we believe is the best life of all—but instead get caught up in some crazy idea of happiness that goes to their head and want to take the whole State for themselves, then they will have to learn how smart Hesiod was when he said, “Half is more than the whole.”
