The’paradoxes,’asMorgensterntermsthem,ofthis book of the Republic will be reserved for another place; a few remarks on the style,andsomeexplanationsofdifficulties,maybebrieflyadded.
 
 First,thereistheimageofthewaves,whichservesforasortofschemeorplan ofthebook. Thefirstwave,thesecondwave,thethirdandgreatestwavecome rollingin,andweheartheroarofthem.Allthatcanbesaidoftheextravagance ofPlato’sproposalsisanticipatedbyhimself. Nothingismoreadmirablethan the hesitation with which he proposes the solemn text, ’Until kings are philosophers,’etc.;orthereactionfromthesublimetotheridiculous,whenGlaucon describesthemannerinwhichthenewtruthwillbereceivedbymankind.
 
 Somedefectsanddifficultiesmaybenotedintheexecutionofthecommunistic plan. Nothingistoldusoftheapplicationofcommunismtothelowerclasses; nor is the table of prohibited degrees capable of being made out. It is quite possible that a child born at one hymeneal festival may marry one of its own brothers or sisters, or even one of its parents, at another. Plato is afraid of incestuous unions, but at the same time he does not wish to bring before us the fact that the city would be divided into families of those born seven and nine monthsaftereachhymenealfestival. Ifitwereworthwhiletoargueseriously about such fancies, we might remark that while all the old affinities are abolished,thenewlyprohibitedaffinityrestsnotonanynaturalorrationalprinciple,butonlyupontheaccidentofchildrenhavingbeenborninthesamemonth andyear. Nordoesheexplainhowthelotscouldbesomanipulatedbythelegislatureastobringtogetherthefairestandbest.Thesingularexpressionwhich isemployedtodescribetheageoffive-and-twentymayperhapsbetakenfrom somepoet.
 
 In the delineation of the philosopher, the illustrations of the nature of philosophy derived from love are more suited to the apprehension of Glaucon, the Athenian man of pleasure, than to modern tastes or feelings. They are partly facetious, but also contain a germ of truth. That science is a whole, remains a trueprincipleofinductiveaswellasofmetaphysicalphilosophy;andthelove of universalknowledgeis still thecharacteristic ofthe philosopherin modern aswellasinancienttimes.
 
 AttheendofthefifthbookPlatointroducesthefigmentofcontingentmatter, which has exercised so great an influence both on the Ethics and Theology of themodernworld,andwhichoccurshereforthefirsttimeinthehistoryofphilosophy. Hedidnotremarkthatthedegreesofknowledgeinthesubjecthave nothingcorrespondingtothemintheobject. Withhimawordmustanswerto anidea; andhecouldnotconceiveofanopinionwhichwasanopinionabout nothing. Theinfluenceofanalogyledhimtoinvent’parallelsandconjugates’ http://www.idph.net 64 IDPH andtooverlookfacts.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
