8. Two other ideals, which never appeared above the horizon in Greek Philosophy,floatbeforethemindsofmeninourownday:oneseenmoreclearlythan formerly, as though each year and each generation brought us nearer to some greatchange;theotheralmostinthesamedegreeretiringfromviewbehindthe lawsofnature,asifoppressedbythem,butstillremainingasilenthopeofwe know not what hidden in the heart of man. The first ideal is the future of the human race in this world; the second the future of the individual in another.
 
 Thefirstisthemoreperfectrealizationofourownpresentlife;thesecond,the abnegationofit: theone,limitedbyexperience,theother,transcendingit. Both ofthemhavebeenandarepowerfulmotivesofaction;thereareafewinwhom they have taken the place of all earthly interests. The hope of a future for the human race at first sight seems to be the more disinterested, the hope of individualexistencethemoreegotistical, ofthetwomotives. Butwhenmenhave learnedtoresolvetheirhopeofafutureeitherforthemselvesorfortheworld intothewillofGod–’notmywillbutThine,’thedifferencebetweenthemfalls away;andtheymaybeallowedtomakeeitherofthemthebasisoftheirlives, accordingtotheirownindividualcharacterortemperament. Thereisasmuch faithinthewillingnesstoworkforanunseenfutureinthisworldasinanother.
 
 Neither is it inconceivable that some rare nature may feel his duty to another generation,ortoanothercentury,almostasstronglyastohisown,orthatliving always in the presence of God, he may realize another world as vividly as he doesthis.
 
 The greatest of all ideals may, or rather must be conceived by us under similitudes derived from human qualities; although sometimes, like the Jewish prophets,wemaydashawaythesefiguresofspeechanddescribethenatureof God only in negatives. These again by degrees acquire a positive meaning. It wouldbewell,ifwhenmeditatingonthehighertruthseitherofphilosophyor religion,wesometimessubstitutedoneformofexpressionforanother,lestthroughthenecessitiesoflanguageweshouldbecometheslavesofmerewords.
 
 Thereisathirdideal,notthesame,butakintothese,whichhasaplaceinthe home and heart of every believer in the religion of Christ, and in which men seemtofindanearerandmorefamiliartruth,theDivineman,theSonofMan, theSaviourofmankind,Whoisthefirst-bornandheadofthewholefamilyin heavenandearth,inWhomtheDivineandhuman,thatwhichiswithoutand thatwhichiswithintherangeofourearthlyfaculties,areindissolublyunited.
 
 Neitheristhisdivineformofgoodnesswhollyseparablefromtheidealofthe Christian Church, which is said in the New Testament to be ’His body,’ or at variance with those other images of good which Plato sets before us. We see Him in a figure only, and of figures of speech we select but a few, and those http://www.idph.net 176 IDPH the simplest, to be the expression of Him.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
