Heasksonly ’Whatgoodhavetheydone?’andisnotsatisfiedwiththereply,that’Theyhave giveninnocentpleasuretomankind.’ He tells us that he rejoices in the banishment of the poets, since he has found by the analysis of the soul that they are concerned with the inferior faculties.
 
 Hemeanstosaythatthehigherfacultieshavetodowithuniversals,thelower withparticularsofsense. Thepoetsareonalevelwiththeirownage, butnot onalevelwithSocratesandPlato;andhewaswellawarethatHomerandHesiodcouldnotbemadearuleoflifebyanyprocessoflegitimateinterpretation; his ironical use of them is in fact a denial of their authority; he saw, too, that thepoetswerenotcritics–ashesaysintheApology,’Anyonewasabetterinterpreteroftheirwritingsthantheywerethemselves. Hehimselfceasedtobe a poet when he became a disciple of Socrates; though, as he tells us of Solon, ’hemighthavebeenoneofthegreatestofthem,ifhehadnotbeendeterredby other pursuits’ (Tim.) Thus from many points of view there is an antagonism betweenPlatoandthepoets,whichwasforeshadowedtohimintheoldquarrel between philosophy and poetry. The poets, as he says in the Protagoras, were the Sophists of their day; and his dislike of the one class is reflected on the other. He regards them both as the enemies of reasoning and abstraction, thoughinthecaseofEuripidesmorewithreferencetohisimmoralsentiments abouttyrantsandthelike. ForPlatoistheprophetwho’cameintotheworldto convincemen’–firstofthefallibilityofsenseandopinion, andsecondlyofthe reality of abstract ideas. Whatever strangeness there may be in modern times inopposingphilosophytopoetry,whichtousseemtohavesomanyelements in common, the strangeness will disappear if we conceive of poetry as allied to sense, and of philosophy as equivalent to thought and abstraction. Unfortunately the very word ’idea,’ which to Plato is expressive of the most real of allthings,isassociatedinourmindswithanelementofsubjectivenessandunreality. We may note also how he differs from Aristotle who declares poetry to be truer than history, for the opposite reason, because it is concerned with universals,notlikehistory,withparticulars(Poet).
 
 The things which are seen are opposed in Scripture to the things which are unseen–they are equally opposed in Plato to universals and ideas. To him all particularsappeartobefloatingaboutinaworldofsense;theyhaveataintof errororevenofevil. Thereisnodifficultyinseeingthatthisisanillusion; for thereisnomoreerrororvariationinanindividualman,horse,bed,etc.,thanin theclassman,horse,bed,etc.;noristhetruthwhichisdisplayedinindividual instanceslesscertainthanthatwhichisconveyedthroughthemediumofideas. ButPlato, whoisdeeplyimpressedwiththerealimportanceofuniversals as instruments of thought, attributes to them an essential truth which is imahttp://www.idph.net 124 IDPH ginaryandunreal; foruniversalsmaybeoftenfalseandparticularstrue.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
