Andexperienceprovesthatin everyrelationoflifethejustmanistheloserandtheunjustthegainer,especiallywhereinjusticeisonthegrandscale,whichisquiteanotherthingfromthe pettyrogueriesofswindlersandburglarsandrobbersoftemples. Thelanguageofmenprovesthis–our’gracious’and’blessed’tyrantandthelike–allwhich tendstoshow(1)thatjusticeistheinterestofthestronger;and(2)thatinjustice ismoreprofitableandalsostrongerthanjustice.’ Thrasymachus, whoisbetterataspeechthanatacloseargument, havingdeluged the company with words, has a mind to escape. But the others will not lethimgo,andSocratesaddsahumblebutearnestrequestthathewillnotdesert them at such a crisis of their fate. ’And what can I do more for you?’ he says; ’wouldyouhavemeputthewordsbodilyintoyoursouls?’ Godforbid!
 
 repliesSocrates; butwewantyoutobeconsistentintheuseofterms,andnot toemploy’physician’inanexactsense,andthenagain’shepherd’or’ruler’in aninexact,–ifthewordsarestrictlytaken,therulerandtheshepherdlookonly to the good of their people or flocks and not to their own: whereas you insist thatrulersaresolelyactuatedbyloveofoffice. ’Nodoubtaboutit,’repliesThrasymachus.Thenwhyaretheypaid?Isnotthereason,thattheirinterestisnot comprehended in their art, and is therefore the concern of another art, the art ofpay,whichiscommontotheartsingeneral,andthereforenotidenticalwith any one of them? Nor would any man be a ruler unless he were induced by thehopeofrewardorthefearofpunishment;–therewardismoneyorhonour, the punishment is the necessity of being ruled by a man worse than himself.
 
 AndifaState(orChurch)werecomposedentirelyofgoodmen,theywouldbe affectedbythelastmotiveonly;andtherewouldbeasmuch’noloepiscopari’ asthereisatpresentoftheopposite...
 
 Thesatireonexistinggovernmentsisheightenedbythesimpleandapparently incidental manner in which the last remark is introduced. There is a similar ironyintheargumentthatthegovernorsofmankinddonotlikebeinginoffice, andthatthereforetheydemandpay.
 
 ...Enough of this: the other assertion of Thrasymachus is far more important– that the unjust life is more gainful than the just. Now, as you and I, Glaucon, arenotconvincedbyhim,wemustreplytohim;butifwetrytocomparetheir respectivegainsweshallwantajudgetodecideforus;wehadbettertherefore proceedbymakingmutualadmissionsofthetruthtooneanother.
 
 Thrasymachushadassertedthatperfectinjusticewasmoregainfulthanperfect justice, and after a little hesitation he is induced by Socrates to admit the still greater paradox that injustice is virtue and justice vice. Socrates praises his frankness, and assumes the attitude of one whose only wish is to understand themeaningofhisopponents. Atthesametimeheisweavinganetinwhich Thrasymachusis finallyenclosed. The admissioniselicited fromhimthat the http://www.idph.net IDPH 21 justmanseekstogainanadvantageovertheunjustonly,butnotoverthejust, while the unjust would gain an advantage over either.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
