Let a man do his duty first, without asking whether hewillbehappyornot,andhappinesswillbetheinseparableaccidentwhich attends him. ’Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all thesethingsshallbeaddeduntoyou.’ Secondly,itmayberemarkedthatPlatopreservesthegenuinecharacterofGreekthoughtinbeginningwiththeStateandingoingontotheindividual. First ethics,thenpolitics–thisistheorderofideastous;thereverseistheorderofhistory. Onlyaftermanystrugglesofthoughtdoestheindividualasserthisright asamoralbeing. InearlyagesheisnotONE,butoneofmany,thecitizenofa Statewhichispriortohim;andhehasnonotionofgoodorevilapartfromthe lawofhiscountryorthecreedofhischurch. Andtothistypeheisconstantly tending to revert, whenever the influence of custom, or of party spirit, or the recollectionofthepastbecomestoostrongforhim.
 
 Thirdly, we may observe the confusion or identification of the individual and the State, of ethics and politics, which pervades early Greek speculation, and even in modern times retains a certain degree of influence. The subtle difference between the collective and individual action of mankind seems to have escaped early thinkers, and we too are sometimes in danger of forgetting the conditions of united human action, whenever we either elevate politics into ethics,orlowerethicstothestandardofpolitics. Thegoodmanandthegood citizen only coincide in the perfect State; and this perfection cannot be attained by legislation acting upon them from without, but, if at all, by education fashioningthemfromwithin.
 
 ...Socrates praises the sons of Ariston, ’inspired offspring of the renowned hero,’ as the elegiac poet terms them; but he does not understand how they can arguesoeloquentlyonbehalfofinjusticewhiletheircharactershowsthatthey areuninfluencedbytheirownarguments. Heknowsnothowtoanswerthem, althoughheisafraidofdesertingjusticeinthehourofneed. Hethereforemakes a condition, that having weak eyes he shall be allowed to read the large lettersfirstandthengoontothesmaller,thatis,hemustlookforjusticeinthe State first, and will then proceed to the individual. Accordingly he begins to constructtheState.
 
 Society arises out of the wants of man. His first want is food; his second a house;histhirdacoat.Thesenseoftheseneedsandthepossibilityofsatisfying thembyexchange,drawindividualstogetheronthesamespot;andthisisthe beginningofaState,whichwetakethelibertytoinvent,althoughnecessityis therealinventor. Theremustbefirstahusbandman,secondlyabuilder,thirdly a weaver, to which may be added a cobbler. Four or five citizens at least are required to make a city. Now men have different natures, and one man will do one thing better than many; and business waits for no man. Hence there must be a division of labour into different employments; into wholesale and http://www.idph.net IDPH 29 retailtrade; intoworkers,andmakersofworkmen’stools; intoshepherdsand husbandmen.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
