They only noticed the things they agreed on and ignored the things they didn’t agree on. Virtue, like art, needs a way to reach a goal; good manners are both an art and a virtue; character is often described like a statue; and many other figures of speech can easily be used to talk about morals instead of just art.

The next generation cleared up these confusing ideas or at least gave more explanations about them. Plato’s friends were in a time of change and hadn’t yet fully understood Aristotle’s common-sense idea that ‘virtue is about action, art is about making things,’ or that ‘virtue means having good intentions and sticking to them,’ while ‘art just needs knowledge.’ But some strange ideas from this comparison hint that virtue is more than just art. This is shown in the strange idea that ‘justice is a thief’ and in Socrates’ unhappiness with the final conclusion.

The phrase ‘an art of pay,’ said to be ‘common to all the arts,’ doesn’t match normal language. Neither Plato nor any other Greek writer used this phrase anywhere else. It comes from the argument and seems to stretch the idea of art to include both doing and making things.

Another mistake in the language is the phrase ‘men who are injured are made more unjust.’ People who are hurt don’t always become worse; they are just harmed or treated badly.

The second of the three arguments, ‘that the just does not aim at excess,’ actually means something even though it’s hard to understand. The idea that good things have limits is a very Greek idea, similar to how some modern writers talk about virtue as being about fitting in and freedom as obeying laws. The idea of limits in math or logic easily turns into an idea about ethics and even appears as a myth about envy in Greek stories. Ideas like measure, fairness, order, unity, and balance are still found in moral writings, and these ideas express the true spirit of fine arts better than exaggerations.

“When workers try to do better than well, they mess up their skill because of greed.” (King John.) The balance of soul and body, and the harmony between parts of the soul, a harmony “fairer than musical notes,” is the true Greek way of thinking about human perfection.

At the end of the talk with Thrasymachus, Plato argues that evil is not about strength but about conflict and breaking apart. This relates to a question often discussed by modern thinkers about how evil is negative or destructive.
