We won’t try to defend Plato’s ideas about morality, but we can accept that there’s a part of the world that might have influenced him without leading him wrong.

We don’t really understand how much the idea of the State affected Plato’s thinking. For us, the State seems to grow out of families or to be the place where family and social life happen. But for Plato, in his way of thinking, the family is more like a problem that messes up the bigger unity of the State. He thinks no group is needed except a political one, which is also like a military group. The State is everything people need, and like the Church later on, it takes over all other wants and feelings. 

In war, citizens are supposed to stand strong like a fortress against enemies. In peace, they spend all their time getting ready for war and doing their duties to the State and to each other. The only other thing they are allowed to care about is philosophy. When they get too old to be soldiers, they stop active life and start a new phase of study and thinking. There’s even a bit of monk-like living in Plato’s idea of sharing everything. If he could have done it without having children, he might have turned his Republic into a religious group. Even in his later work, the Laws, he doesn’t change his mind: in the state he wants to create, people don’t marry or get married. But because humans are weak, he allows nature to take its course.

Plato has another big idea, or even a bigger problem, summed up in the famous quote: “Until kings are philosophers or philosophers are kings, cities will never stop having problems.” By philosophers, he means those who can understand ideas, especially the idea of good. The second stage of education is for reaching this higher knowledge. After training that makes them good citizens, these people are to become good lawmakers. 

Surprisingly, Plato doesn’t suggest that these future leaders study money, law, or military skills. Instead, he says they should only study abstract math to prepare for understanding the idea of good. We wonder, like Aristotle did, what good it is to know the idea of good if you don’t know what’s actually good for a person, a state, or a society. It’s hard to see how Plato thinks studying these five types of math will help his rulers be good leaders.
