There is nothing surprising in the circumstance that those whowereseekingfororderinnatureandhadfoundorderinnumber, should haveimaginedonetogivelawtotheother.Platobelievesinapowerofnumber farbeyondwhathecouldseerealizedintheworldaroundhim,andheknows thegreatinfluencewhich’thelittlematterof1,2,3’exercisesuponeducation.
 
 Hemayevenbethoughttohaveapropheticanticipationofthediscoveriesof Quetelet and others, that numbers depend upon numbers; e.g.–in population, thenumbersofbirthsandtherespectivenumbersofchildrenbornofeithersex, ontherespectiveagesofparents,i.e. onothernumbers.
 
 BOOKIX.Lastofallcomesthetyrannicalman,aboutwhomwehavetoenquire, Whence is he, and how does he live–in happiness or in misery? There is, however,apreviousquestionofthenatureandnumberoftheappetites,which I should like to consider first. Some of them are unlawful, and yet admit of beingchastenedandweakenedinvariousdegreesbythepowerofreasonand law. ’What appetites do you mean?’ I mean those which are awake when the reasoningpowersareasleep,whichgetupandwalkaboutnakedwithoutany self-respectorshame;andthereisnoconceivablefollyorcrime,howevercruel orunnatural,ofwhich,inimagination,theymaynotbeguilty. ’True,’hesaid; ’verytrue.’ Butwhenaman’spulsebeatstemperately; andhehassuppedon afeastofreasonandcometoaknowledgeofhimselfbeforegoingtorest,and hassatisfiedhisdesiresjustenoughtopreventtheirperturbinghisreason,whichremainsclearandluminous,andwhenheisfreefromquarrelandheat,–the visionswhichhehasonhisbedareleastirregularandabnormal. Eveningood menthereissuchanirregularwild-beastnature,whichpeersoutinsleep.
 
 To return:–You rememberwhat was said of the democrat; that he was the son of a miserly father, who encouraged the saving desires and repressed the ornamental and expensive ones; presently the youth got into fine company, and begantoentertainadisliketohisfather’snarrowways;andbeingabetterman than the corrupters of his youth, he came to a mean, and led a life, not of lawlessorslavishpassion,butofregularandsuccessiveindulgence. Nowimaginethattheyouthhasbecomeafather,andhasasonwhoisexposedtothesame temptations,andhascompanionswholeadhimintoeverysortofiniquity,and parents and friends who try to keep him right. The counsellors of evil find thattheironlychanceofretaininghimistoimplantinhissoulamonsterdrone, or love; while other desires buzz around him and mystify him with sweet soundsandscents,thismonsterlovetakespossessionofhim,andputsanend toeverytrueormodestthoughtorwish. Love,likedrunkennessandmadness, isatyranny;andthetyrannicalman,whethermadebynatureorhabit,isjusta drinking,lusting,furioussortofanimal.
 
 And how does such an one live? ’Nay, that you must tell me.’ Well then, I fancy that he will live amid revelries and harlotries, and love will be the lord andmasterofthehouse. Manydesiresrequiremuchmoney,andsohespends http://www.idph.net 106 IDPH allthathehasandborrowsmore; andwhenhehasnothingtheyoungravens are still in the nest in which they were hatched, crying for food.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
