But with a judge, it’s different. Since he understands people’s minds, he shouldn’t have grown up around bad people or lived a life of crime just so he can quickly guess what others have done wrong, like a doctor guesses diseases from their own body. A good judge needs a healthy mind and shouldn’t have learned bad habits when young. That’s why young good people often seem simple and can be easily tricked by dishonest ones because they don’t know what evil feels like inside themselves.

Yes, he said, they are too easy to fool.

So, I said, a judge shouldn’t be young. He should learn about evil not from his own mistakes, but by watching others carefully over a long time. Knowledge should guide him, not personal experience.

Yes, he said, that’s the perfect kind of judge.

Yes, I replied, and he will be a good man (which is my answer to your question). A good man has a good soul. But the tricky and suspicious person who has done many crimes and thinks he’s smart at being bad is very careful because he judges others by himself. But when he’s with good people who have lived longer, he looks foolish because he always suspects the worst. He can’t trust honest people because he doesn’t know what honesty really is inside. Since bad people are more common and he meets them more often, he thinks he is smart, and others think so too.

That’s very true, he said.

Then, the good and wise judge we want is not the bad man, but the other kind. Bad people can’t understand good people, but a good person who has learned from life will know both good and bad. In my opinion, only good people have real wisdom.

And I agree, he said.

This is the kind of medicine and law you should have in your country. They will help better people stay healthy in both mind and body. But those who are sick in body will be left to die, and those with corrupt souls will end their own lives.

That is clearly the best thing for both the people and the country.

And so, our young people, having only learned simple and good music that teaches self-control, will not want to go to court often.
