Poetry feeds and grows our feelings and desires. It lets those feelings control us instead of us controlling them. So, when we hear people praising Homer, saying he teaches all of Greece and that life should follow his ideas, we can respect their good intentions and agree that Homer was a great poet and storyteller. But we still won’t allow poetry that goes beyond songs to gods or praising famous people. In our society, laws and reason, not feelings like pleasure or pain, must be in charge.

These are the reasons we want to stop certain kinds of poetry. But to be fair, let’s apologize to poetry. There’s an old fight between poetry and philosophy, which you can see in some poems that make fun of philosophers. Still, we don’t hate poetry, and we’ll let her come back if she can defend herself by writing poems. Her fans who don’t write poems can talk in regular speech. We admit poetry is charming, but if she can’t prove she’s useful as well as fun, like a smart partner, we have to give up loving her, even if we liked her before.

Now that we’re older and wiser, we know poetry isn’t always true, and people should be careful about bringing poetry into their lives or their government. What’s at stake is huge — the good or bad of a person’s soul. It’s not worth giving up justice and goodness just for poetry’s fun, just like it’s not worth it for honor or money.

“I agree,” you might say. “But being good has even better rewards.” And can there be anything better than that? Maybe not in this short life. But if someone lives forever, wouldn’t they care about more than just a short time?

“I don’t get what you mean.”

“Don’t you know the soul never dies?”

“Are you ready to prove that?”

“Yes, I am.”

“Then tell me your proof, since you make it sound easy.”

You’d agree that everything has some good and some bad in it. Everything can get spoiled or ruined, and if it can’t be destroyed from inside, nothing else can destroy it. The soul also has things that can spoil it, like being unfair, weak, or scared. But none of these spoil the soul like sickness spoils the body. The soul can be full of bad stuff, but that doesn’t bring it closer to death.

Only things that are broken from inside can be destroyed from outside. The body is one thing, and food is another. Food can’t destroy the body unless the bad parts of the food affect the body. The soul is one thing, and the body is another. The body can’t spoil the soul unless the soul lets itself be spoiled. No body problem, like sickness or injury, can hurt the soul unless it also makes the soul unfair or wrong. But no one will ever prove that souls get worse when people die.
