Good means what he likes, and evil means what he doesn’t like; truth and beauty are decided only by the taste of the strongest person. This is the Sophist’s way of thinking, and it shows how people who make public opinion the test of truth—whether in art or morals—live. They are forced to be and do whatever the public approves, and when they try to stand for real principles, they fail in a ridiculous way.

Think about this and ask yourself if the world is more likely to believe in one big idea or in many different things. And if the world doesn’t believe in the big idea, it can’t be a true thinker and will end up being against those who think deeply.

There is another problem: the world doesn’t want to lose talented people. So, they flatter young people (like Alcibiades) and make them think very highly of themselves. The young person begins to dream big about kingdoms and empires. If a friend then tells him, “You’re a fool and need to learn,” do you think he will listen? Or if a better person is drawn to philosophy, won’t others try hard to ruin and corrupt him? Aren’t we right to say that love of knowledge, just like love of money, can distract him?

People like this (like Critias) often become politicians—they can cause a lot of trouble in states, but sometimes also do great good. Because of this, philosophy loses its true supporters, and others come in and disrespect it. Simple-minded people see the world open and rush out of their closed hearts into her temple.

A smart mechanic, who has a rough soul like his body, thinks he can gain respect by following philosophy. Even when philosophy is down, she still has her own dignity—and he, like a small blacksmith’s helper who has made some money and escaped his hard life, cleans up and dresses nicely to marry his master’s daughter. What will come from these kinds of marriages? Won’t they be ugly and fake, without truth or real nature?

They will. So, there are very few real philosophers left. Maybe a few live in small places where politics don’t matter much or are stuck because of bad health. In my own case, signs are almost unique and too rare to mention. These few, after tasting the joys of philosophy and seeing the wild, dangerous world of human life, will stand aside from the chaos, protect their own innocence, and try to leave in peace. That is a great achievement. But not the greatest, because humans live in society and can only grow best in the society that fits them.

So, now you know why philosophy has such a bad name. Another question is, which current state is right for her? None of them. Right now, she is like a special seed that can’t grow well in strange soil. Only in her true home will she show her heavenly nature. And is her true home our state or some other?
