I totally agree with you, he said. I think those stories are really not suitable to be told again.

Also, if we want the people who take care of us in the future to think that fighting among themselves is the worst thing, we shouldn’t tell them about the wars in heaven or the gods fighting each other, because those stories aren’t true.

No, we should never talk about the battles of the giants or put those stories on clothes. We should stay quiet about all the many fights gods and heroes had with their friends and family.

If they would just believe us, we would tell them that fighting is wrong and that, so far, there has never been any fighting between citizens. This is what old people should start teaching children. And when the kids grow up, poets should be asked to write stories with the same message.

But stories like Hephaestus tying up his mother, or Zeus sending him away when he tried to help her, and all the battles of gods in Homer’s stories – these tales should never be allowed in our State, whether they have hidden meanings or not. A young person can’t tell what is a symbol and what is real; anything they hear at that age sticks in their mind forever. That’s why the first stories they hear must teach good values.

You’re right, he replied. But if someone asks where we can find such good stories and what kind of stories we mean – how do we answer them?

I said, You and I, Adeimantus, are not poets right now, but we are the ones starting a State. So, the people who start a State should know the general way poets should tell their stories and the rules they must follow. But making the stories isn’t their job.

That’s true, he said. But what kind of ideas about gods are you talking about?

I answered, It’s something like this: God should always be shown as he really is, no matter what kind of poetry it is – whether it’s epic, lyric, or tragic.

Right.

And isn’t God really good? Shouldn’t he be shown that way?

Certainly.

And nothing good can ever cause harm?

No, never.
