Plato thinks the body serves the mind; the lower part (body) listens to the higher part (mind) because it helps both. The mind can control the body a lot, but only if it does so all the time, not just sometimes. Other Greek writers noticed problems with Spartan training, but only Plato saw the main mistake behind it.

Plato talks about exercise and then moves to medicine, comparing it to law. Today, people don’t trust medicine as much and want it to be simpler. Doctors realize that sometimes their treatments make diseases worse or more complicated. Even after two thousand years, medicine hasn’t advanced much. Doctors have learned a lot about body parts but forgot to think about the body as a whole. They focus more on curing sickness than on staying healthy. Improvements in medicine have been canceled out because people stopped regular exercise.

Until recently, doctors didn’t pay much attention to things like fresh air and clean water, which the ancient Greeks knew were very important. For a long time, doctors followed old beliefs that only recently started to change. Now, there are many different opinions in medicine, just like in religion, and people often don’t accept others’ views.

Plato has some good ideas about medicine. He says you can’t fix the eyes without fixing the whole body, and you can’t fix the body without the mind. He also thinks smart people wouldn’t just rely on medicine. He agrees with the idea that hard-working people get more from warm baths than from a doctor’s pills. But it’s hard to agree when he ignores the importance of diet or when he suggests letting sick and useless people die, which seems harsh. He didn’t think about how the “control of age” might include qualities more valuable to the state than just health or strength, or how caring for weak people could be part of education.

Plato also says doctors shouldn’t be super healthy themselves. Instead, they should have experienced illness to better understand and notice others’ diseases.

Medicine is confusing, just like law. Plato wanted people to keep things simple in both.
