heasked.
 
 Suppose, I answered, that a just and good man in the course of a narration comesonsomesayingoractionofanothergoodman,–Ishouldimaginethathe willliketopersonatehim,andwillnotbeashamedofthissortofimitation: he will be most ready to play the part of the good man when he is acting firmly and wisely; in a less degree when he is overtaken by illness or love or drink, or has met with any other disaster. But when he comes to a character which is unworthy of him, he will not make a study of that; he will disdain such a person, and will assume his likeness, if at all, for a moment only when he is performingsomegoodaction;atothertimeshewillbeashamedtoplayapart whichhehasneverpractised,norwillheliketofashionandframehimselfafter the baser models; he feels the employment of such an art, unless in jest, to be beneathhim,andhismindrevoltsatit.
 
 SoIshouldexpect,hereplied.
 
 ThenhewilladoptamodeofnarrationsuchaswehaveillustratedoutofHomer, thatistosay, hisstylewillbebothimitativeandnarrative; buttherewill beverylittleoftheformer,andagreatdealofthelatter. Doyouagree?
 
 Certainly,hesaid;thatisthemodelwhichsuchaspeakermustnecessarilytake.
 
 Butthereisanothersortofcharacterwhowillnarrateanything,and,theworse he is, the more unscrupuloushe will be; nothing will be too bad for him: and he will be ready to imitate anything, not as a joke, but in right good earnest, andbeforealargecompany. AsIwasjustnowsaying,hewillattempttorepresent the roll of thunder, the noise of wind and hail, or the creaking of wheels, andpulleys,andthevarioussoundsofflutes,pipes,trumpets,andallsortsof instruments: hewillbarklikeadog,bleatlikeasheep,orcrowlikeacock;his entire art will consist in imitation of voice and gesture, and there will be very littlenarration.
 
 That,hesaid,willbehismodeofspeaking.
 
 These,then,arethetwokindsofstyle?
 
 Yes.
 
 And you would agree with me in saying that one of them is simple and has but slight changes; and if the harmony and rhythm are also chosen for their simplicity,theresultisthatthespeaker,ifhespeakscorrectly,isalwayspretty muchthesameinstyle,andhewillkeepwithinthelimitsofasingleharmony (for the changes are not great), and in like manner he will make use of nearly thesamerhythm?
 
 Thatisquitetrue,hesaid.
 
 http://www.idph.net 252 IDPH Whereastheotherrequiresallsortsofharmoniesandallsortsofrhythms,ifthe musicandthestylearetocorrespond,becausethestylehasallsortsofchanges.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
