The wise man easily saw that this was the only way a community could become rich if everything was shared equally (Utopia). We wonder how, during the time of Henry VIII, these ideas could be accepted, even though they were hidden in a different language and published in another country.

He is much better at creating stories than anyone who came after him, except for Swift. When it comes to pretending, he is a good student of Plato. Like Plato, he starts with a small fact and builds his story skillfully using a few lines from the Latin story about Amerigo Vespucci’s voyages. He is very careful with dates and facts, and he makes us believe the storyteller must have seen everything himself.

We are a bit confused by how he mixes real and imaginary people. For example, his boy John Clement and Peter Giles, a citizen of Antwerp, argue about the exact words said by the (imaginary) Portuguese traveler, Raphael Hythloday. Hythloday says, “I have more reason to fear people won’t believe me, because I would hardly believe someone else telling the same story if I hadn’t seen it with my own eyes.” He also says, “If you had been with me in Utopia and seen their customs and laws as I did, living there for over five years, you wouldn’t have left, but only come to tell others about this new land.” He regrets forgetting to ask Hythloday where Utopia is located and says he would have spent a lot of money to know. He asks Peter Giles to contact Hythloday to get an answer. After this, it’s no surprise to hear that a Professor of Divinity (maybe a well-known vicar from Croydon in Surrey, as the translator thinks) wants to be sent there as a missionary by the High Bishop. He even hopes to become Bishop of Utopia, sure he will get the position because of his good intentions, not for fame or money. The plan probably failed because Hythloday disappeared, and we have very unclear news about him after he left. There is no doubt he told More and Giles exactly where the island was, but at the same time, More’s attention was distracted by a servant, and someone on the ship coughed loudly to stop Giles from hearing. The secret was lost with him, and today no one knows where Utopia is.

When we read this realistic story, we remember what Phaedrus said, “O Socrates, you can easily make up Egyptians or anything.” But the best part of the work is not just the great storytelling, but the new and original ideas.

More is as free as Plato from the biases of his time, and even more open-minded.

The Utopians don’t let anyone who doesn’t believe in the soul’s immortality take part in running the government. However, they only punish him because they believe no one can help what they believe. No one is blamed for arguing in support of their own religion. “One person in our group was punished severely in my presence.”
