Let’s save the big questions about religion or education for another time. For now, we can notice a few things: (1) how people liked the old school learning from Greece; (2) how Plato was getting ready to criticize Homer and other poets; (3) how he was also preparing ideas about managing money in the State; (4) and how he talks about the gods in a way that shows both disrespect and tries to be polite.

In Book III, there’s another reason to clean up religion: to get rid of fear. No one can be brave if they are scared of death or believe the scary stories poets tell about the afterlife. We should ask poets nicely not to make hell sound so awful. Their stories are not true and only make people feel bad. They shouldn’t be upset if we remove parts like Achilles saying he’d rather be a servant than rule all the dead, or the sad descriptions of poor souls wandering underground like ghosts or bats. The scary places like Cocytus and Styx, and all the names for hell, should disappear. These stories might have a purpose, but they are not good for soldiers.

We also shouldn’t accept the sad feelings shown by heroes in Homer’s stories—like Achilles crying and throwing ashes on his head, or Priam crying loudly in the mud. A good person doesn’t fall apart over losing children or money. Death isn’t something to fear, so people who are important shouldn’t show grief over the dead; that’s for less important people, whether men or women. Even worse is when gods act weak, like when a goddess says “Alas! My troubles!” or when the king of heaven mourns his failure to save Hector or grieves over Sarpedon’s fate.

If young people don’t laugh at these weak gods, they might start copying them. Our citizens shouldn’t laugh too much either, because wild fun can lead to trouble later on. For example, the Iliad’s story about gods laughing at Hephaestus’s clumsiness won’t be allowed here. No way. Truth should be one of the most important virtues because lies don’t help gods; they only help people like medicine does. But only the government should use lies sometimes. Regular people must never lie to their leaders, just like patients don’t lie to doctors or sailors don’t lie to their captains.

Next, our young people must be self-controlled and respect authority. That’s what temperance means. Homer teaches this in some parts, saying the Achaeans marched bravely, quietly trusting their leaders. But in other parts, he shows a different example: someone drunk and reckless, with “the eyes of a dog but the heart of a stag.”
