Then, like a wrestler, he said, you have to put yourself back in the same situation; and let me ask the same questions, and see if you give me the same answers you were about to give before.

Yes, if I can, I will, I said.

I especially want to hear about the four types of governments you mentioned.

That question, I said, is easy to answer: the four governments I talked about, with clear names, are first, those of Crete and Sparta, which people usually like; next is oligarchy, which isn’t as popular and has many problems; third is democracy, which comes after oligarchy but is very different; and finally, tyranny, which is famous and very different from the others, and is the worst kind of government. I don’t know if you can think of any other government that has a clear character. There are also lordships and principalities that are bought and sold, and some other mixed types of government. But these don’t have clear characteristics and can be found among both Greeks and non-Greeks.

Yes, he said, we definitely hear about many strange types of government among them.

Do you know, I said, that governments are different because people’s personalities are different, and there are as many types of governments as there are types of people? We can’t think that states are made of strong materials like oak and rock, instead of being made up of the people who live there, whose characters influence everything else.

Yes, he said, states are like the people in them; they grow from human personalities.

Then if there are five types of governments, there must also be five types of personalities?

Certainly.

We have already described the person who fits an aristocracy, who is rightly called just and good.

We have.

Now let’s describe the less good types of people, like the argumentative and ambitious ones who fit the Spartan government; also those who fit oligarchy, democracy, and tyranny. Let’s put the most just people next to the most unjust, so when we see them, we can compare how happy or unhappy someone is who lives a life of pure justice or pure injustice. Then our investigation will be complete.
