Suppose you were to ask me whether the body is self-sufficing or has wants, I should reply: Certainlythebodyhaswants; forthebodymaybeillandrequiretobe cured, and has therefore interests to which the art of medicine ministers; and thisistheoriginandintentionofmedicine,asyouwillacknowledge. AmInot right?
 
 Quiteright,hereplied.
 
 Butistheartofmedicineoranyotherartfaultyordeficientinanyqualityinthe samewaythattheeyemaybedeficientinsightortheearfailofhearing, and thereforerequiresanotherarttoprovidefortheinterestsofseeingandhearing– hasartinitself,Isay,anysimilarliabilitytofaultordefect,anddoeseveryart requireanothersupplementaryarttoprovideforitsinterests,andthatanother and another without end? Or have the arts to look only after their own interests? Or have they no need either of themselves or of another?– having no faults or defects, they have no need to correct them, either by the exercise of their own art or of any other; they have only to consider the interest of their subject-matter. Foreveryartremainspureandfaultlesswhileremainingtrue– that is to say, while perfect and unimpaired. Take the words in your precise sense,andtellmewhetherIamnotright.
 
 Yes,clearly.
 
 Thenmedicinedoesnotconsidertheinterestofmedicine,buttheinterestofthe body?
 
 True,hesaid.
 
 Nor does the art of horsemanship consider the interests of the art of horsemanship,buttheinterestsofthehorse;neitherdoanyotherartscareforthemselves, for they have no needs; they care only for that which is the subject of theirart?
 
 True,hesaid.
 
 But surely, Thrasymachus, the arts are the superiors and rulers of their own subjects?
 
 Tothisheassentedwithagooddealofreluctance.
 
 Then,Isaid,noscienceorartconsidersorenjoinstheinterestofthestrongeror superior,butonlytheinterestofthesubjectandweaker?
 
 Hemadeanattempttocontestthispropositionalso,butfinallyacquiesced.
 
 Then,Icontinued,nophysician,insofarasheisaphysician,considershisown good inwhat heprescribes, butthe good ofhis patient; for thetruephysician is also a ruler having the human body as a subject, and is not a mere moneyhttp://www.idph.net IDPH 195 maker;thathasbeenadmitted?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
