I know, I said, that this is how they think, and that’s exactly what Thrasymachus was saying earlier when he criticized justice and said injustice was better. But I’m too slow to be convinced by him.

I wish, he said, that you would listen to me as well as you listen to him, then I can see if you and I agree. Thrasymachus seems to me like a snake who was tricked by your voices too quickly; but I still don’t understand what justice and injustice really are. Forgetting about their rewards and results, I want to know what they are inside and how they work in the soul.

If you don’t mind, I will repeat Thrasymachus’s argument. First, I will talk about what most people think justice is and where it comes from. Second, I will show that everyone who acts justly actually does it against their will, because they have to, not because it’s good. Third, I will argue that there is some truth in this, since an unjust person’s life is better than a just person’s—if what they say is true, Socrates, because I don’t believe it myself.

But I admit I get confused when I hear Thrasymachus and so many others shouting in my ears. And on the other hand, I have never heard anyone explain well why justice is better than injustice. I want to hear justice praised for what it really is; then I will be happy. And I think you are the one most likely to say this, so I will speak as strongly as I can in favor of injustice, and my way of talking will show how I want you to praise justice and blame injustice. Will you agree to this?

Yes, I do; I can’t imagine any topic a smart person would want to talk about more.

I’m glad to hear you say that, he replied, and I will start by talking, as I planned, about what justice is and where it comes from.

They say that doing injustice is naturally good, and suffering injustice is evil; but the evil is worse than the good. So when people have done injustice and suffered it and have experienced both but can’t avoid one or get the other, they think it’s better to agree not to do either. That’s how laws and agreements start; and what the law says is called lawful and just.

They say this is the origin and nature of justice—it’s a kind of compromise between the best thing, which is to do injustice without being punished, and the worst thing, which is to suffer injustice without being able to fight back. Justice is the middle point and is accepted not as a good thing, but as the lesser evil, and it’s respected because people can’t get away with injustice. No one who deserves to be called a man would agree to this if they could resist; they’d be crazy if they did.
