ButAristotle wasoutofallpatiencewiththeaccountIgavehimofScotusandRamus, asI presented them to him; and he asked them "whether the rest of the tribe were as great dunces as themselves?"’). There is, however, a difference between them: forwhereasHegelisthinkingofallthemindsofmenasonemind,whichdevelopesthestagesoftheideaindifferentcountriesoratdifferenttimesin thesamecountry,withPlatothesegradationsareregardedonlyasanorderof thoughtorideas;thehistoryofthehumanmindhadnotyetdawneduponhim.
 
 Many criticisms may be made on Plato’s theory of education. While in some respects he unavoidably falls short of modern thinkers, in others he is in advanceofthem. Heisopposedtothemodesofeducationwhichprevailedinhis owntime;buthecanhardlybesaidtohavediscoverednewones. Hedoesnot see that education is relative to the characters of individuals; he only desires toimpressthesameformofthestateonthemindsofall. Hehasnosufficient idea of the effect of literature on the formation of the mind, and greatly exaggeratesthatofmathematics. Hisaimisaboveallthingstotrainthereasoning faculties;toimplantinthemindthespiritandpowerofabstraction;toexplain anddefinegeneralnotions, and, ifpossible, toconnectthem. Nowonderthat inthevacancyofactualknowledgehisfollowers,andattimesevenhehimself, shouldhavefallenawayfromthedoctrineofideas, andhavereturnedtothat branch of knowledge in which alone the relation of the one and many can be trulyseen–thescienceofnumber. Inhisviewsbothofteachingandtraininghe mightbestyled,inmodernlanguage,adoctrinaire;aftertheSpartanfashionhe would have his citizens cast in one mould; he does not seem to consider that somedegreeoffreedom,’alittlewholesomeneglect,’isnecessarytostrengthen and develope the character and to give play to the individual nature. His citizens would not have acquired that knowledge which in the vision of Er is supposedtobegainedbythepilgrimsfromtheirexperienceofevil.
 
 Ontheotherhand,Platoisfarinadvanceofmodernphilosophersandtheologians when he teaches that education is to be continued through life and will beginagaininanother. Hewouldneveralloweducationofsomekindtocease; althoughhewasawarethattheproverbialsayingofSolon,’Igrowoldlearning many things,’ cannot be applied literally. Himself ravished with the contemplationoftheideaofgood,anddelightinginsolidgeometry(Rep.),hehasno difficultyinimaginingthatalifetimemightbepassedhappilyinsuchpursuits.
 
 Wewhoknowhowmanymoremenofbusinessthereareintheworldthanreal studentsorthinkers,arenotequallysanguine. Theeducationwhichheproposes for his citizens is really the ideal life of the philosopher or man of genius, interrupted,butonlyforatime,bypracticalduties,–alifenotforthemany,but forthefew.
 
 YetthethoughtofPlatomaynotbewhollyincapableofapplicationtoourown times. Even if regarded as an ideal which can never be realized, it may have http://www.idph.net 160 IDPH a great effect in elevating the characters of mankind, and raising them above theroutineoftheirordinaryoccupationorprofession.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
