Mortalsouls,beholdanewcycleoflifeandmortality. Yourgeniuswillnotbe allotted to you, but you will choose your genius; and let him who draws the firstlothavethefirstchoice,andthelifewhichhechoosesshallbehisdestiny.
 
 Virtue is free, and as a man honours or dishonours her he will have more or less of her; the responsibility is with the chooser–God is justified.’ When the Interpreterhadthusspokenhescatteredlotsindifferentlyamongthemall,and each of them took up the lot which fell near him, all but Er himself (he was not allowed), and each as he took his lot perceived the number which he had obtained. Then the Interpreter placed on the ground before them the samples oflives;andthereweremanymorelivesthanthesoulspresent,andtheywere of all sorts. There were lives of every animal and of man in every condition.
 
 Andthereweretyranniesamongthem,somelastingoutthetyrant’slife,others which broke off in the middle and came to an end in poverty and exile and beggary;andtherewerelivesoffamousmen,somewhowerefamousfortheir form and beauty as well as for their strength and success in games, or, again, for their birth and the qualities of their ancestors; and some who were the reverseoffamousfortheoppositequalities. Andofwomenlikewise; therewas not,however,anydefinitecharacterinthem,becausethesoul,whenchoosinga newlife,mustofnecessitybecomedifferent. Buttherewaseveryotherquality, and the all mingled with one another, and also with elements of wealth and poverty,anddiseaseandhealth;andthereweremeanstatesalso.Andhere,my dearGlaucon,isthesupremeperilofourhumanstate;andthereforetheutmost careshouldbetaken. Leteachoneofusleaveeveryotherkindofknowledge and seek and follow one thing only, if peradventure he may be able to learn andmayfindsomeonewhowillmakehimabletolearnanddiscernbetween goodandevil,andsotochoosealwaysandeverywherethebetterlifeashehas opportunity. Heshouldconsiderthebearingofallthesethingswhichhavebeenmentionedseverallyandcollectivelyuponvirtue;heshouldknowwhatthe effectofbeautyiswhencombinedwithpovertyorwealthinaparticularsoul, andwhatarethegoodandevilconsequencesofnobleandhumblebirth,ofprivate and public station, of strength and weakness, of cleverness and dullness, andofallthenaturalandacquiredgiftsofthesoul,andtheoperationofthem whenconjoined; hewillthenlookatthenatureofthesoul, andfromtheconsiderationofallthesequalitieshewillbeabletodeterminewhichisthebetter andwhichistheworse;andsohewillchoose,givingthenameofeviltothelife whichwillmakehissoulmoreunjust,andgoodtothelifewhichwillmakehis soulmorejust;allelsehewilldisregard.Forwehaveseenandknowthatthisis thebestchoicebothinlifeandafterdeath. Amanmusttakewithhimintothe world below an adamantine faith in truth and right, that there too he may be undazzledbythedesireofwealthortheotherallurementsofevil,lest,coming upontyranniesandsimilarvillainies,hedoirremediablewrongstoothersand sufferyetworsehimself;butlethimknowhowtochoosethemeanandavoid http://www.idph.net 482 IDPH theextremesoneitherside,asfaraspossible,notonlyinthislifebutinallthat whichistocome.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
