There’s no record of anything like that about him. For sure, Socrates, Creophylus, who was a friend of Homer, and that silly guy whose name always makes us laugh, could be made fun of more for being dumb if, like you said, Homer was ignored by him and others when he was alive.

Yes, I answered, that’s what people say. But can you imagine, Glaucon, if Homer had actually been able to teach and improve people – if he really knew stuff and wasn’t just copying? Can you imagine that he wouldn’t have had lots of followers who loved and respected him? Protagoras from Abdera, Prodicus from Ceos, and many others barely speak loudly about themselves, saying, “You’ll never run your home or country right unless you let us be your teachers.” This idea makes people like them so much that their friends almost carry them on their shoulders.

And do you think the people who lived with Homer or Hesiod would have let them just wander around as poets if they could really make people better? Wouldn’t they hold on to them like they were precious gold, forcing them to stay close? Or if the teacher didn’t want to stay, wouldn’t the students follow him everywhere until they learned enough?

Yes, Socrates, I think that’s true.

So, should we conclude that all these poets, starting with Homer, are just copycats? They copy ideas about being good and stuff, but never find the real truth? The poet is like a painter who can draw a shoemaker but doesn’t know anything about making shoes. His picture looks good enough to people who don’t know more than he does and judge only by how it looks.

Exactly.

In the same way, the poet uses words and phrases like colors from different skills, but only knows enough to copy them. Other people, who are just as clueless, hear his words and think that if he talks about shoemaking, or war tactics, or anything else in a nice rhythm and rhyme, he must be really smart. That’s the sweet power of music and rhythm by nature. And I think you’ve noticed many times how boring the stories of poets are when you take away the music and just read them plainly.

Yes, he said.

They’re like faces that were never really beautiful, only fresh-looking; and now, that fresh youth is gone from them?
