Some of these problems seem tricky only because they are actually simple. We don’t realize that the answers are right in front of us. Early thinkers saw the idea of "not being" as dark and mysterious. They didn’t understand that this scary idea, which seemed to threaten all knowledge, was just a logical conclusion.  

Another source of confusion was that one word in Greek, used by accident for two very different ideas. Because of this mix-up, Plato, who was trying to bring order to early human thought, seemed to confuse what is real with what people just think, and he didn’t clearly separate what is accidental from what is relative.  

In Plato’s dialogues called Theaetetus and Sophist, some of these problems start to become clearer. These dialogues are probably later works than the Republic.  

BOOK VI. After deciding that most people don’t truly understand what real being is, and don’t have clear ideas about justice, beauty, and truth—but philosophers do—we have to ask who should rule our State. Who would doubt that philosophers should be rulers if they have the other qualities needed?  

Philosophers love to know eternal truth; they hate lies. Their smaller desires don’t distract them because they focus on knowledge. They see all time and life as one whole, so human life or death doesn’t scare them. They are friendly, brave, and humble.  

They learn and remember easily; their minds are balanced and organized. Truth comes to them naturally. Even the god of Jealousy couldn’t find any fault in these good qualities.  

Then Adeimantus speaks up: “No one can answer you, Socrates, but everyone feels this is because they aren’t good at arguing. They get pushed from one side to another until they have nothing left to say, like a bad player in a game losing to a better one.  

But he might be right. He may know that those who spend their lives on philosophy often turn out to be bad people if they are evil, and fools if they are good. What do you say?”  

“I’d say he’s quite right.”  

“Then how can that be true if philosophers are supposed to be kings?”  

“I’ll answer with a story that also shows how bad I am at making up stories. The way good people relate to their governments is strange, so to explain it, I’ll use an example from fiction.  

Imagine a ship’s captain who is taller than everyone else, but a little deaf, a little blind, and not very good at sailing. The sailors want to steer, even though they don’t know how and think it can’t be learned. If they are not allowed to steer, they drug the captain, tie him up, and take over the ship.”
