Thedescriptionoftheaxisasaspindle,andoftheheavenlybodiesasforming awhole,partlyarisesoutoftheattempttoconnectthemotionsoftheheavenly bodies with the mythological image of the web, or weaving of the Fates. The giving of the lots, the weaving of them, and the making of them irreversible, whichareascribedtothethreeFates–Lachesis,Clotho,Atropos,areobviously derivedfromtheirnames. Theelementofchanceinhumanlifeisindicatedby the order of the lots. But chance, however adverse, may be overcome by the wisdom of man, if he knows how to choose aright; there is a worse enemy to manthanchance; thisenemyishimself. Hewhowasmoderatelyfortunatein the number of the lot–even the very last comer–might have a good life if he chosewithwisdom. AndasPlatodoesnotliketomakeanassertionwhichis unproven,hemorethanconfirmsthisstatementafewsentencesafterwardsby theexampleofOdysseus, whochoselast. Butthevirtuewhichisfoundedon habit is not sufficient to enable a man to choose; he must add to virtue knowledge,ifheistoactrightlywhenplacedinnewcircumstances. Theroutineof goodactionsandgoodhabitsisaninferiorsortofgoodness;and,asColeridge says,’Commonsenseisintolerablewhichisnotbasedonmetaphysics,’soPlato wouldhavesaid,’Habitisworthlesswhichisnotbaseduponphilosophy.’ The freedom of the will to refuse the evil and to choose the good is distinctly asserted. ’Virtue is free, and as a man honours or dishonours her he will have more or less of her.’ The life of man is ’rounded’ by necessity; there are circumstancespriortobirthwhichaffecthim(Pol.). Butwithinthewallsofnecessitythereisanopenspaceinwhichheishisownmaster,andcanstudyfor himselftheeffectswhichthevariouslycompoundedgiftsofnatureorfortune have upon the soul, and act accordingly. All men cannot have the first choice ineverything. Butthelotofallmenisgoodenough,iftheychoosewiselyand willlivediligently.
 
 Theverisimilitudewhichisgiventothepilgrimageofathousandyears,bythe intimationthatArdiaeushadlivedathousandyearsbefore;thecoincidenceof Ercomingtolifeonthetwelfthdayafterhewassupposedtohavebeendead with the seven days which the pilgrims passed in the meadow, and the four days during which they journeyed to the column of light; the precision with whichthesoulismentionedwhochosethetwentiethlot; thepassingremarks thattherewasnodefinitecharacteramongthesouls,andthatthesoulswhich hadchosenillblamedanyoneratherthanthemselves;orthatsomeofthesouls drankmorethanwasnecessaryofthewatersofForgetfulness,whileErhimself was hindered from drinking; the desire of Odysseus to rest at last, unlike the conception of him in Dante and Tennyson; the feigned ignorance of how Er returned to the body, when the other souls went shooting like stars to their birth,–add greatly to the probability of the narrative. They are such touches of nature as the art of Defoe might have introduced when he wished to win http://www.idph.net 130 IDPH credibilityformarvelsandapparitions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
