Neither will we believe or acknowledge Achilles himself to have been such a lover of money that he took Agamemnon’s gifts, or that when he had received payment he restored the dead body of Hector, but that without paymenthewasunwillingtodoso.
 
 Undoubtedly,hesaid,thesearenotsentimentswhichcanbeapproved.
 
 Loving Homer as I do, I hardly like to say that in attributing these feelings to Achilles, or in believing that they are truly attributed to him, he is guilty of downright impiety. As little can I believe the narrative of his insolence to Apollo,wherehesays, ’Thou hast wronged me, O far-darter, most abominable of deities. Verily I wouldbeevenwiththee,ifIhadonlythepower;’ or his insubordination to the river-god, on whose divinity he is ready to lay hands; or his offering to the dead Patroclus of his own hair, which had been previously dedicated to the other river-god Spercheius, and that he actually performed this vow; or that he dragged Hector round the tomb of Patroclus, and slaughtered the captives at the pyre; of all this I cannot believe that he was guilty, any more than I can allow our citizens to believe that he, the wise Cheiron’spupil,thesonofagoddessandofPeleuswhowasthegentlestofmen andthirdindescentfromZeus,wassodisorderedinhiswitsastobeatonetime the slave of two seemingly inconsistent passions, meanness, not untainted by avarice,combinedwithoverweeningcontemptofgodsandmen.
 
 Youarequiteright,hereplied.
 
 And let us equally refuse to believe, or allow to be repeated, the tale of Theseus son of Poseidon, or of Peirithous son of Zeus, going forth as they did to perpetrateahorridrape; orofanyotherheroorsonofagoddaringtodosuchimpiousanddreadfulthingsastheyfalselyascribetotheminourday: and let us further compel the poets to declare either that these acts were not done bythem, orthattheywerenotthesonsofgods;–bothinthesamebreaththey shallnotbepermittedtoaffirm. Wewillnothavethemtryingtopersuadeour youth that the gods are the authors of evil, and that heroes are no better than men–sentiments which, as we were saying, are neither pious nor true, for we havealreadyprovedthatevilcannotcomefromthegods.
 
 Assuredlynot.
 
 And further they are likely to have a bad effect on those who hear them; for everybodywillbegintoexcusehisownviceswhenheisconvincedthatsimilar wickednessesarealwaysbeingperpetratedby– ’Thekindredofthegods, therelativesofZeus, whoseancestralaltar, thealtar ofZeus,isaloftinaironthepeakofIda,’ http://www.idph.net 246 IDPH andwhohave ’thebloodofdeitiesyetflowingintheirveins.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
