Acitywhichincludesallthiswillhavefarexceededthelimitof fourorfive,andyetnotbeverylarge. Butthenagainimportswillberequired, and imports necessitate exports, and this implies variety of produce in order to attract the taste of purchasers; also merchants and ships. In the city too we musthaveamarketandmoneyandretailtrades;otherwisebuyersandsellers willnevermeet,andthevaluabletimeoftheproducerswillbewastedinvain effortsatexchange.IfweaddhiredservantstheStatewillbecomplete.Andwe may guess that somewhere in the intercourse of the citizens with one another justiceandinjusticewillappear.
 
 Here follows a rustic picture of their way of life. They spend their days in houseswhichtheyhavebuiltforthemselves;theymaketheirownclothesand producetheirowncornandwine. Theirprincipalfoodismealandflour, and theydrinkinmoderation. Theyliveonthebestoftermswitheachother, and takecarenottohavetoomanychildren. ’But,’ saidGlaucon, interposing, ’are they not to have a relish?’ Certainly; they will have salt and olives and cheese, vegetables and fruits, and chestnuts to roast at the fire. ”Tis a city of pigs, Socrates.’ Why,Ireplied,whatdoyouwantmore? ’Onlythecomfortsoflife,– sofas and tables, also sauces and sweets.’ I see; you want not only a State, butaluxuriousState;andpossiblyinthemorecomplexframewemaysooner find justice and injustice. Then the fine arts must go to work–every conceivableinstrumentandornamentofluxurywillbewanted. Therewillbedancers, painters,sculptors,musicians,cooks,barbers,tire-women,nurses,artists;swineherdsandneatherdstoofortheanimals,andphysicianstocurethedisorders of which luxury is the source. To feed all these superfluous mouths we shall needapartofourneighbour’sland,andtheywillwantapartofours. Andthis is the origin ofwar, which may be traced to thesame causes as other political evils. Our city will now require the slight addition of a camp, and the citizen willbeconvertedintoasoldier. Butthenagainourolddoctrineofthedivision oflabourmustnotbeforgotten. Theartofwarcannotbelearnedinaday,and theremustbeanaturalaptitudeformilitaryduties. Therewillbesomewarlike natureswhohavethisaptitude–dogskeenofscent,swiftoffoottopursue,and strong of limb to fight. And as spirit is the foundation of courage, such natures,whetherofmenoranimals,willbefullofspirit. Butthesespiritednatures areapttobiteanddevouroneanother; theunionofgentlenesstofriendsand fiercenessagainstenemiesappearstobeanimpossibility,andtheguardianofa Staterequiresbothqualities.Whothencanbeaguardian?Theimageofthedog suggestsananswer. Fordogsaregentletofriendsandfiercetostrangers. Your dog is a philosopher who judges by the ruleof knowing or not knowing; and philosophy, whether in man or beast, is the parent of gentleness. The human watchdogs must be philosophers or lovers of learning which will make them gentle. Andhowaretheytobelearnedwithouteducation?
 
 http://www.idph.net 30 IDPH Butwhatshalltheireducationbe?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
