But what could be a worse sign of a bad education than having to go to another country to get justice because you don’t have any at home? And there is an even worse problem—when people start to enjoy and feel proud of making the law confusing instead of living their lives so well that they don’t need the law to protect them.

It’s the same kind of problem with doctors. Some people don’t go to a doctor to get better but because they got sick from being lazy and spoiled, with illnesses that didn’t even exist long ago. Back then, medicine was simple. For example, in the stories, after Eurypylus was hurt, he drank warm wine to heal, and no one blamed the nurse or his friend who helped him.

This modern way of making people sicker was started by a trainer named Herodicus, who was weak and made himself and others suffer with his harsh training and medicine. He lived longer than expected, but Asclepius, the old healer, wouldn’t use these methods. He believed that people in a good society don’t have time to be sick, so he used a “kill or cure” approach, like workers do. They have to get back to work fast and don’t have time for pampering. If they get better, great; if not, that’s the end. Rich people, on the other hand, can afford to be sick because they have the time.

There’s a saying by Phocylides that when a person starts to become rich, or maybe even a bit before, they should start practicing good behavior.

But how can taking care of your health too much go against having a regular job and still follow the good advice of Phocylides?

When a student thinks studying philosophy gives him headaches, he never does anything and always feels sick. This is why Asclepius and his sons didn’t use complicated medicine. They worked for the good of the public and didn’t want to keep alive useless people or create weak children for poor parents.

They honestly cured real sicknesses. If someone was hurt, they gave the right treatment and then let the person eat and drink whatever they wanted. But they refused to treat people who were careless and bad, even if those people had lots of money. The story that Asclepius was killed by a thunderbolt because he brought a rich man back to life is not true. Following our old rules, we must say either he didn’t take bribes or he wasn’t really the son of a god.

Glaucon then asks Socrates if the best doctors and judges aren’t the ones with the most experience with sickness and crime. Socrates explains that doctors should have experienced illness themselves because they heal with their minds, not just their bodies. But judges control one mind with another, so their minds must stay clean and not be corrupted by crime. So where do they get experience?
