People talk about societies in America and other places that show breaking up families doesn’t always mean losing all morals. No matter what we think about these ideas, it’s clear they are talked about more now than ever before. Where these ideas will lead, no one knows for sure.

Some “social reformers” question how men and women relate and what people’s morals really are. There is a good answer to their questions, if one is needed. The difference between their view and ours is simple. They talk about people how they want or imagine them to be, but we talk about people as they really are.

They focus only on the animal side of humans. We see humans as having many parts, moving between good and bad, trying to be better and almost like angels. We know family life can be hard, business can be unfair, and different social groups can flatter or block each other’s goals. But we also know there are bigger problems hidden or ignored.

What kind of world would it be if people’s feelings had no rules, no shame, no respect, no love to guide or improve natural urges, just a rule of health? Is this really the kind of civilization, built over many years, that we want to give up?

Being strong and healthy isn’t all that matters. Mind, character, and soul are even more important. We know how people can be hurt or lowered, but we don’t know how to improve people by artificial means. The problem is complicated because if we look back just a few generations (which all affect a child), there are many ancestors to consider.

Many interesting stories are told about how diseases or traits come from faraway ancestors, but proof is rare. We can see family members look alike in bodies—like “the eyes, the hands, the face”—but children also often look very different from each other and their parents.

People say certain mental traits run in families, and sometimes animals go back to their original type. But it’s hard to tell if talents or traits come from true inheritance or are just copied or caused by similar environments.
