This kind of language won’t teach young people to control themselves. The same goes for talking a lot about eating, drinking, or being scared of starving. It’s also true for the poems about the crazy love stories of gods like Zeus and Hera, or the story where Hephaestus trapped Ares and Aphrodite in a net.

There are better words we can hear, like “Endure, my soul, you have been through worse.” We shouldn’t let people in our city take bribes or say things like “Gifts make the gods and kings listen.” We also shouldn’t praise bad advice, like Phoenix telling Achilles to take money from the Greeks before helping them, or Achilles being greedy by taking gifts from Agamemnon. 

Achilles asking for a ransom for Hector’s body, cursing Apollo, being rude to the river god Scamander, or dedicating the same hair to two different river gods are all mean and cruel things. Dragging Hector’s body around and killing prisoners are terrible actions that can’t be imagined from a good teacher like Cheiron. The love stories of Peirithous and Theseus are also unworthy.

Either these “sons of gods” were not really gods’ children or they weren’t as the poets say, just like the gods themselves are not the cause of evil. Young people who believe that gods and heroes do these bad things might try to copy them too easily.

Enough about gods and heroes. What about people? Poets and storytellers say that bad people get lucky and good people suffer, or that justice is just someone else’s advantage. We cannot accept these wrong ideas.

But we are getting ahead of ourselves, since we haven’t defined what justice really is yet.

We have talked enough about poetry’s topics; now let’s talk about style. All poetry tells stories about the past, present, or future. Storytelling can be simple, imitative, or a mix of both. 

Here’s an example. The first scene in Homer’s work is a mix because it has both description and dialogue. If you change the dialogue into indirect speech, it becomes all description. For example: The priest came and prayed to Apollo that the Greeks might win Troy and return safely if Agamemnon gave back his daughter, and the other Greeks agreed, but Agamemnon was angry.

Then the whole thing is just the poet telling the story. Or if you take away the description, it becomes just dialogue. These are the three styles. Which one should be allowed in our city?

Are you asking if tragedy and comedy should be allowed? Yes, but there’s more to consider. Should our protectors even act or imitate others at all? Or haven’t we already decided that one person can’t play many roles at once, just like they can’t perform both tragedy and comedy, or be both singer and actor at the same time?
