Will any private training enable him to stand firm againsttheoverwhelmingfloodofpopularopinion? orwillhebecarriedaway bythestream? Willhenothavethenotionsofgoodandevilwhichthepublic ingeneralhave–hewilldoastheydo,andastheyare,suchwillhebe?
 
 Yes,Socrates;necessitywillcompelhim.
 
 Andyet,Isaid,thereisastillgreaternecessity,whichhasnotbeenmentioned.
 
 Whatisthat?
 
 Thegentleforceofattainderorconfiscationordeath,which,asyouareaware, thesenewSophistsandeducators,whoarethepublic,applywhentheirwords arepowerless.
 
 Indeedtheydo;andinrightgoodearnest.
 
 NowwhatopinionofanyotherSophist,orofanyprivateperson,canbeexpectedtoovercomeinsuchanunequalcontest?
 
 None,hereplied.
 
 No, indeed, I said, even to make the attempt is a great piece of folly; there neitheris,norhasbeen,noriseverlikelytobe,anydifferenttypeofcharacter whichhashadnoothertraininginvirtuebutthatwhichissuppliedbypublic opinion–I speak, my friend, of human virtue only; what is more than human, astheproverbsays,isnotincluded: forIwouldnothaveyouignorantthat,in thepresentevilstateofgovernments,whateverissavedandcomestogoodis savedbythepowerofGod,aswemaytrulysay.
 
 Iquiteassent,hereplied.
 
 Thenletmecraveyourassentalsotoafurtherobservation.
 
 Whatareyougoingtosay?
 
 Why, that all those mercenary individuals, whom the many call Sophists and whomtheydeemtobetheiradversaries,do,infact,teachnothingbuttheopinion of the many, that is to say, the opinions of their assemblies; and this is theirwisdom. Imightcomparethemtoamanwhoshouldstudythetempers and desires of a mighty strong beast who is fed by him–he would learn how to approach and handle him, also at what times and from what causes he is dangerousorthereverse,andwhatisthemeaningofhisseveralcries,andby http://www.idph.net IDPH 353 what sounds, when another utters them, he is soothed or infuriated; and you may suppose further, that when, by continually attending upon him, he has become perfect in all this, he calls his knowledge wisdom, and makes of it a system or art, which he proceeds to teach, although he has no real notion of whathemeansbytheprinciplesorpassionsofwhichheisspeaking,butcalls thishonourableandthatdishonourable,orgoodorevil,orjustorunjust,allin accordance with the tastes and tempers of the great brute.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
