Nowdogsarenotdividedintohesandshes–wedonottakethe masculinegenderouttohuntandleavethefemalesathometolookaftertheir puppies. Theyhavethesameemployments–theonlydifferencebetweenthem isthattheonesexisstrongerandtheotherweaker. Butifwomenaretohave thesameemploymentsasmen,theymusthavethesameeducation–theymust be taught music and gymnastics, and the art of war. I know that a great joke willbemadeoftheirridingonhorsebackandcarryingweapons;thesightofthe nakedoldwrinkledwomenshowingtheiragilityinthepalaestrawillcertainly notbeavisionofbeauty,andmaybeexpectedtobecomeafamousjest. Butwe mustnotmindthewits;therewasatimewhentheymighthavelaughedatour presentgymnastics.Allishabit:peoplehaveatlastfoundoutthattheexposure isbetterthantheconcealmentoftheperson,andnowtheylaughnomore. Evil onlyshouldbethesubjectofridicule.
 
 Thefirstquestionis,whetherwomenareableeitherwhollyorpartiallytoshare intheemploymentsofmen.Andherewemaybechargedwithinconsistencyin makingtheproposalatall.Forwestartedoriginallywiththedivisionoflabour; andthediversityofemploymentswasbasedonthedifferenceofnatures. But istherenodifferencebetweenmenandwomen? Nay,aretheynotwhollydifferent? THEREwasthedifficulty,Glaucon,whichmademeunwillingtospeak offamilyrelations. However,whenamanisoutofhisdepth,whetherinapool orinanocean,hecanonlyswimforhislife; andwemusttrytofindawayof escape,ifwecan.
 
 The argument is, that different natures have different uses, and the natures of men and women are said to differ. But this is only a verbal opposition. We do not consider that the difference may be purely nominal and accidental; for example, a bald man and a hairy man are opposed in a single point of view, but you cannot infer that because a bald man is a cobbler a hairy man ought nottobeacobbler. Nowwhyissuchaninferenceerroneous? Simplybecause theoppositionbetweenthemispartialonly,likethedifferencebetweenamale physician and a female physician, not runningthrough the whole nature, like the difference between a physician and a carpenter. And if the difference of the sexes is only that the one beget and the other bear children, this does not provethattheyoughttohavedistincteducations.Admittingthatwomendiffer from men in capacity, do not men equally differ from one another? Has not naturescatteredallthequalitieswhichourcitizensrequireindifferentlyupand downamongthetwosexes?andevenintheirpeculiarpursuits,arenotwomen often,thoughinsomecasessuperiortomen,ridiculouslyenoughsurpassedby them? Women are the same in kind as men, and have the same aptitude or want of aptitude for medicine or gymnastic or war, but in a less degree. One woman will be a good guardian, another not; and the good must be chosen to be the colleagues of our guardians. If however their natures are the same, http://www.idph.net 58 IDPH the inference is that their education must also be the same; there is no longer anything unnatural or impossible in a woman learning music and gymnastic.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
