Enoughofthis.
 
 Now,ifwearetoformarealjudgmentofthelifeofthejustandunjust,wemust isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected? I answer: Let the unjust man be entirely unjust, and the just man entirely just; nothing is to be taken away from either of them, and both are to be perfectly furnishedfortheworkoftheirrespectivelives. First,lettheunjustbelikeother distinguished masters of craft; like the skilful pilot or physician, who knows intuitivelyhisownpowersandkeepswithintheirlimits,andwho,ifhefailsat anypoint,isabletorecoverhimself. Solettheunjustmakehisunjustattempts in the right way, and lie hidden if he means to be great in his injustice: (he whoisfoundoutisnobody:) forthehighestreachofinjusticeis,tobedeemed justwhenyouarenot. ThereforeIsaythatintheperfectlyunjustmanwemust assumethemostperfectinjustice;thereistobenodeduction,butwemustallow him,whiledoingthemostunjustacts,tohaveacquiredthegreatestreputation forjustice. Ifhehavetakenafalsestephemustbeabletorecoverhimself; he must be one who can speak with effect, if any of his deeds come to light, and whocanforcehiswaywhereforceisrequiredbyhiscourageandstrength,and command of money and friends. And at his side let us place the just man in hisnoblenessandsimplicity,wishing,asAeschylussays,tobeandnottoseem good. Theremustbenoseeming,forifheseemtobejusthewillbehonoured and rewarded, and then we shall not know whether he is just for the sake of justiceorforthesakeofhonoursandrewards; therefore,lethimbeclothedin justice only, and have no other covering; and he must be imagined in a state of life the opposite of the former. Let him be the best of men, and let him be thought the worst; then he will have been put to the proof; and we shall see whether he will be affected by the fear of infamy and its consequences. And lethimcontinuethustothehourofdeath;beingjustandseemingtobeunjust.
 
 Whenbothhavereachedtheuttermostextreme,theoneofjusticeandtheother ofinjustice,letjudgmentbegivenwhichofthemisthehappierofthetwo.
 
 Heavens! my dear Glaucon, I said, how energetically you polish them up for thedecision,firstoneandthentheother,asiftheyweretwostatues.
 
 I do my best, he said. And now that we know what they are like there is no difficultyintracingoutthesortoflifewhichawaitseitherofthem. ThisIwill proceed to describe; but as you may think the description a little too coarse, I ask you to suppose, Socrates, that the words which follow are not mine.–Let me put them into the mouths of the eulogists of injustice: They will tell you that the just man who is thought unjust will be scourged, racked, bound–will have his eyes burnt out; and, at last, after suffering every kind of evil, he will http://www.idph.net IDPH 215 be impaled: Then he will understand that he ought to seem only, and not to be, just; the words of Aeschylus may be more truly spoken of the unjust than ofthejust.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
