Forthisisthewayofhappiness.
 
 And according to the report of the messenger from the other world this was whattheprophetsaidatthetime: ’Evenforthelastcomer,ifhechooseswisely and will live diligently, there is appointed a happy and not undesirable existence. Let not him who chooses first be careless, and let not the last despair.’ And when he had spoken, he who had the first choice came forward and in a moment chose the greatest tyranny; his mind having been darkened by folly and sensuality, he had not thought out the whole matter before he chose, and did not at first sight perceive that he was fated, among other evils, to devour his own children. But when he had time to reflect, and saw what was in the lot, he began to beat his breast and lament over his choice, forgetting the proclamationoftheprophet; for, insteadofthrowingtheblameofhismisfortune on himself, he accused chance and the gods, and everything rather than himself. Now he was one of those who came from heaven, and in a former life haddweltinawell-orderedState,buthisvirtuewasamatterofhabitonly,and he had no philosophy. And it was true of others who were similarly overtaken,thatthegreaternumberofthemcamefromheavenandthereforetheyhad never been schooled by trial, whereas the pilgrims who came from earth havingthemselvessufferedandseenotherssuffer,werenotinahurrytochoose.
 
 Andowingtothisinexperienceoftheirs,andalsobecausethelotwasachance, many of the souls exchanged a good destiny for an evil or an evil for a good.
 
 Forifamanhadalwaysonhisarrivalinthisworlddedicatedhimselffromthe firsttosoundphilosophy,andhadbeenmoderatelyfortunateinthenumberof thelot,hemight,asthemessengerreported,behappyhere,andalsohisjourneytoanotherlifeandreturntothis,insteadofbeingroughandunderground, would be smooth and heavenly. Most curious, he said, was the spectacle–sad andlaughableandstrange;forthechoiceofthesoulswasinmostcasesbased on their experience of a previous life. There he saw the soul which had once beenOrpheuschoosingthelifeofaswanoutofenmitytotheraceofwomen, hatingtobebornofawomanbecausetheyhadbeenhismurderers;hebeheld alsothesoulofThamyraschoosingthelifeofanightingale;birds,ontheother hand, like the swan and other musicians, wanting to be men. The soul which obtainedthetwentiethlotchosethelifeofalion,andthiswasthesoulofAjax thesonofTelamon,whowouldnotbeaman,rememberingtheinjusticewhich wasdonehiminthejudgmentaboutthearms.ThenextwasAgamemnon,who took the life of an eagle, because, like Ajax, he hated human nature by reason of his sufferings. About the middle came the lot of Atalanta; she, seeing the greatfameofanathlete,wasunabletoresistthetemptation: andafterhertherefollowedthesoulofEpeusthesonofPanopeuspassingintothenatureofa womancunninginthearts;andfarawayamongthelastwhochose,thesoulof thejesterThersiteswasputtingontheformofamonkey. Therecamealsothe soul of Odysseus having yet to make a choice, and his lot happened to be the http://www.idph.net IDPH 483 lastofthemall.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
