Plato wrote about politics and truth, but he sometimes mixed things up in his own writings. He didn’t just explain truth using logic; his ideas were still wrapped up in deeper philosophy. The science he imagined to understand all truth and existence is very different from Aristotle’s idea of logic.

Also, Plato’s Republic is only one part of a bigger plan. He wanted to include an ideal history of Athens and ideas about politics and nature. The story in his unfinished work, Critias, became a famous myth, almost as well-known as the stories of Troy and King Arthur. It’s said to have inspired some explorers in the 1500s. The myth is about a war between Athens and the island of Atlantis and is based on an unfinished poem by Solon, kind of like how early historians’ writings relate to Homer’s poems.

This story would have shown a fight for freedom, symbolizing the conflict between Persia and Greece. We can guess from other works by Plato how he might have told this story. We don’t know why Plato stopped working on it—it could be because he noticed problems with the fake history, lost interest, or got too old. But if he had finished it, maybe he would have supported the Greek fight for freedom, celebrated victories like Marathon and Salamis, and thought about how important free speech was for Athens. Or maybe he would have said the victories came from Athens’ good government and the help of gods like Apollo and Athena.

Plato can also be seen as the leader of a group of followers. His Republic inspired many later works about ideal societies, like Cicero’s De Republica, St. Augustine’s City of God, Sir Thomas More’s Utopia, and others. Not many people realize how much Aristotle and his followers owed to Plato, and Aristotle himself didn’t say this. The two philosophers had more in common than they knew, and some of Plato’s ideas might still be hidden in Aristotle’s work. Even in English philosophy, you can find connections to Plato’s ideas in thinkers like the Cambridge Platonists, Berkeley, and Coleridge.
