Even modern writers agree that owning private property is mostly about what works best, and sometimes it can be changed for the good of everyone. If a better way to handle property is found, it would eventually be accepted as the right way. Like Plato said, what’s most useful becomes the most important.

In the past, lawyers and church leaders called property a sacred thing. But really, they just wanted to stop people from messing with the rights of individuals and the Church.

When we think about property without worrying about using the idea right now, and imagine it like in Plato’s Republic, we have to ask: Are the usual ideas about property really the best? Is the way wealth is shared in civilized countries the best for helping most people learn and grow? Could it be that thousands of years from now, the rules about property will be very different, or maybe the idea of owning more than what you need to live might disappear?

Aristotle knew about this idea, even if we might find it strange today. Big changes like this wouldn’t be crazier than other big changes the world has already seen, like freeing the serfs in Russia or ending slavery in America and the West Indies. It wouldn’t even be as big as the difference between village life in the East and life in the West. Making such a big change in a few hundred years wouldn’t be faster than the changes we’ve seen in the last 50 or 60 years. For example, Japan changed more in five or six years than Europe did in hundreds.

Many ideas we once strongly believed in, including the sacredness of property, have disappeared. Even very strict rules about passing down property have been challenged. Some people might ask if it’s fair for the future of thousands of people to depend on one person’s life or character. Many hope that our current situation is only temporary and that in the future, property will not just help a few people have fun but will support the highest culture for everyone. It might be better for the public and more controlled by the government.

There might come a time when saying, “I have the right to do whatever I want with my property,” will seem old-fashioned and selfish. Owning part of something might be better for everyone than one person owning all of it.

These ideas might seem like dreams to practical leaders, but they are possible to thinkers and philosophers.
