Sometimes, we might stop thinking about the differences between the body and mind, which we usually talk about but don’t always understand clearly. What if we try to see humans in a simpler way? 

We have two parts inside us: a higher part and a lower part. There’s no clear line between them, but sometimes they fight each other. Other times, they work together, either without us noticing in everyday life or on purpose when we’re trying to reach an important goal that takes effort and focus. Then, the body becomes a friend or helper to the mind. 

The mind can do amazing things, almost like superpowers, by getting rid of sickness and finding hidden strength. Reason and desires, thinking and senses, can come together and follow each other to make one complete person. They keep separating and joining again, and most of the time, we don’t even notice it. When the mind influences the body through wants, we know one part is responsible for the other. One part might say, “Drink,” while the other says, “Don’t drink; it’s bad for you.” We all know which one is better. 

We’re also responsible for our health, even though some things might be out of our control. But if we take care of ourselves and think about our health over many years, we can almost be free to choose, as long as we don’t expect too much and remember that all human freedom has limits set by nature and the mind.

We’re a bit disappointed that Plato, who didn’t like how medicine was practiced in his time, didn’t appreciate how important diet is. He wanted diseases to be clear and treatable in a simple way. He worried that being sick would stop people from living their lives. He didn’t realize that time is a big part of healing both the mind and body. Healing that happens slowly is safer than sudden cures that can cause shock. He also didn’t see that the best way for the mind to affect the body is through controlling what we eat and drink, or through other actions where our willpower can clearly show itself.

Some smaller style points can be noticed:

(1) Plato’s “ignorance” of music is just his way of quickly moving past that topic.

(2) He is careful and unsure when he builds his idea of the State, like in the second book.

(3) Sometimes he talks about the State as if it’s real, and other times as if it’s just imagination. These tricks keep the reader interested.
