There are some important points left to talk about at the end: (1) The Republic has two sides – one is a Greek state, and the other is a kingdom ruled by philosophers. Linked to the second side are (2) some strange ideas in the Republic, called paradoxes by Morgenstern: (a) sharing property; (b) sharing families; (c) philosophers being the rulers; (d) comparing a person to the State, which is an idea taken too far in the book. Next, we can look at (3) Plato’s ideas about education, including both teaching young people and preparing for life after death; (4) some important differences between ancient and modern politics shown in the Republic; (5) comparing the Politicus and the Laws; (6) noticing how Plato influenced people who came after him; and thinking about (7) what political ideals really mean, and (8) what religious ideals really mean.

1. Plato clearly says he wants to create a Greek State (Book V).

Many of his rules are like those in Sparta. For example, banning gold and silver, having men eat together, training young people to be soldiers, and having women do gym exercises. Life in Sparta was like living in a military camp all the time, even during peace. Spartans were not allowed to trade or be shopkeepers – they were only soldiers. In Sparta, the State controlled everything about a person’s life, like when they got married, how their kids were raised, what clothes they wore, and what they ate. 

Some of the best ideas in the Republic, like respecting parents and older people, come from Sparta. Some of the worst, like abandoning children who were born with deformities, also come from Sparta. Encouraging close friendships between men and young men to inspire bravery was also a Spartan idea. Sparta got closer than any other Greek city to equality between men and women and sharing property. While there was probably less bad behavior, marriage was taken less seriously than in other parts of Greece.

The most important thing for the Spartans was keeping the family safe and serving the State. A strict military government didn’t support kindness or good manners, and some rules were so harsh they caused people to push back. Spartans were the easiest Greeks to bribe, and many secretly wanted gold and silver, even though they officially didn’t. 

Though they weren’t true communists, Spartans shared land, meals, slaves, and goods. Marriage was a public matter, and women were educated by the State and performed songs and dances with men in public.
