Noquestion,hereplied.
 
 To them, I said, the truth would be literally nothing but the shadows of the images.
 
 Thatiscertain.
 
 And now look again, and see what will naturally follow if the prisoners are released and disabused of their error. At first, when any of them is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn his neck round and walk and look towards the light, he will suffer sharp pains; the glare will distress him, and he will be unable to see the realities of which in his former state he had seentheshadows;andthenconceivesomeonesayingtohim,thatwhathesaw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being andhiseyeisturnedtowardsmorerealexistence,hehasaclearervision,–what willbehisreply? Andyoumayfurtherimaginethathisinstructorispointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him to name them,–will he not be perplexed? Willhenotfancythattheshadowswhichheformerlysawaretruer thantheobjectswhicharenowshowntohim?
 
 Fartruer.
 
 And if he is compelled to look straight at the light, will he not have a pain in hiseyeswhichwillmakehimturnawaytotakerefugeintheobjectsofvision which he can see, and which he will conceive to be in reality clearer than the thingswhicharenowbeingshowntohim?
 
 True,hesaid.
 
 Andsupposeoncemore,thatheisreluctantlydraggedupasteepandrugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is henotlikelytobepainedandirritated? Whenheapproachesthelighthiseyes willbedazzled, andhewillnotbeabletoseeanythingatallofwhatarenow calledrealities.
 
 Notallinamoment,hesaid.
 
 Hewillrequiretogrowaccustomedtothesightoftheupperworld. Andfirst hewillseetheshadowsbest,nextthereflectionsofmenandotherobjectsinthe water,andthentheobjectsthemselves; thenhewillgazeuponthelightofthe moon and the stars and the spangled heaven; and he will see the sky and the starsbynightbetterthanthesunorthelightofthesunbyday?
 
 Certainly.
 
 Lastofallhewillbeabletoseethesun,andnotmerereflectionsofhiminthe water,buthewillseehiminhisownproperplace,andnotinanother;andhe http://www.idph.net IDPH 375 willcontemplatehimasheis.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
