But while acknowledging their value in education, he sees also that they have no connexion with our higher moral and intellectual ideas. In the attempt which Plato makes to connect them, we easily trace the influences of ancientPythagoreannotions. Thereisnoreasontosupposethatheisspeaking of the ideal numbers; but he is describing numbers which are pure abstractions, to which he assigns a real and separate existence, which, as ’the teachers oftheart’(meaningprobablythePythagoreans)wouldhaveaffirmed,repelall attemptsatsubdivision,andinwhichunityandeveryothernumberareconceivedofasabsolute. Thetruthandcertaintyofnumbers,whenthusdisengaged fromphenomena,gavethemakindofsacrednessintheeyesofanancientphilosopher. Nor isiteasy tosay howfar ideasoforder andfixednessmay have hadamoralandelevatinginfluenceonthemindsofmen,’who,’inthewords oftheTimaeus,’mightlearntoregulatetheirerringlivesaccordingtothem.’ It isworthyofremarkthattheoldPythagoreanethicalsymbolsstillexistasfiguresofspeechamongourselves. Andthosewhoinmoderntimesseetheworld pervadedbyuniversallaw,mayalsoseeananticipationofthislastwordofmodernphilosophyinthePlatonicideaofgood,whichisthesourceandmeasure ofallthings,andyetonlyanabstraction(Philebus).
 
 Two passages seem to require more particular explanations. First, that which relatestotheanalysisofvision.Thedifficultyinthispassagemaybeexplained, likemanyothers,fromdifferencesinthemodesofconceptionprevailingamong ancient and modern thinkers. To us, the perceptions of sense are inseparable fromtheactofthemindwhichaccompaniesthem. Theconsciousnessofform, colour, distance, is indistinguishable from the simple sensation, which is the medium of them. Whereas to Plato sense is the Heraclitean flux of sense, not the vision of objects in the order in which they actually present themselves to the experienced sight, but as they may be imagined to appear confused and blurred to the half-awakened eye of the infant. The first action of the mind is arousedbytheattempttosetinorderthischaos,andthereasonisrequiredto framedistinctconceptionsunderwhichtheconfusedimpressionsofsensemay bearranged. Hencearisesthequestion,’Whatisgreat,whatissmall?’ andthus beginsthedistinctionofthevisibleandtheintelligible.
 
 The second difficulty relates to Plato’s conception of harmonics. Three classesofharmonistsaredistinguishedbyhim:–first, thePythagoreans, whomhe proposes to consult as in the previous discussion on music he was to consult Damon–theyareacknowledgedtobemastersintheart,butarealtogetherdeficientintheknowledgeofitshigherimportandrelationtothegood;secondly, the mere empirics, whom Glaucon appears to confuse with them, and whom bothheandSocratesludicrouslydescribeasexperimentingbymereauscultationontheintervalsofsounds. Bothofthesefallshortindifferentdegreesofthe http://www.idph.net 88 IDPH Platonicideaofharmony,whichmustbestudiedinapurelyabstractway,first bythemethodofproblems, andsecondlyasapartofuniversalknowledgein relationtotheideaofgood.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
