’ Ours in all points but one, which was left undetermined. Youmayrememberoursayingthatsomelivingmindorwitnessofthe legislator was needed in states. But we were afraid to enter upon a subject of such difficulty, and now the question recurs and has not grown easier:–How may philosophy be safely studied? Let us bring her into the light of day, and makeanendoftheinquiry.
 
 Inthefirstplace,Isayboldlythatnothingcanbeworsethanthepresentmode ofstudy. Personsusuallypickupalittlephilosophyinearlyyouth,andinthe intervalsofbusiness,buttheynevermastertherealdifficulty,whichisdialectic.
 
 Later,perhaps,theyoccasionallygotoalectureonphilosophy. Yearsadvance, and the sun of philosophy, unlike that of Heracleitus, sets never to rise again.
 
 This order of education should be reversed; it should begin with gymnastics inyouth,andasthemanstrengthens,heshouldincreasethegymnasticsofhis soul. Then, when active life is over, let him finally return to philosophy. ’You are in earnest, Socrates, but the world will be equally earnest in withstanding you–nomorethanThrasymachus.’ DonotmakeaquarrelbetweenThrasymachusandme,whowereneverenemiesandarenowgoodfriendsenough. And Ishalldomybesttoconvincehimandallmankindofthetruthofmywords, oratanyratetoprepareforthefuturewhen,inanotherlife,wemayagaintake partinsimilardiscussions.’Thatwillbealongtimehence.’Notlongincomparisonwitheternity. Themanywillprobablyremainincredulous,fortheyhave neverseenthenaturalunityofideas,butonlyartificialjuxtapositions;notfree and generous thoughts, but tricks of controversy and quips of law;–a perfect manrulinginaperfectstate,evenasingleonetheyhavenotknown. Andwe foresaw that there was no chance of perfection either in states or individuals until a necessity was laid upon philosophers–not the rogues, but those whom wecalledtheuselessclass–ofholdingoffice;oruntilthesonsofkingswereinspiredwithatrueloveofphilosophy. Whetherintheinfinityofpasttimethere hasbeen, orisinsomedistantland, oreverwillbehereafter, anidealsuchas wehavedescribed,westoutlymaintainthattherehasbeen,is,andwillbesuch astatewhenevertheMuseofphilosophyrules. Willyousaythattheworldis ofanothermind? O,myfriend,donotreviletheworld! Theywillsoonchange theiropinioniftheyaregentlyentreated,andaretaughtthetruenatureofthe philosopher. Who can hate a man who loves him? Or be jealous of one who hasnojealousy? Consider,again,thatthemanyhatenotthetruebutthefalse philosophers–thepretenderswhoforcetheirwayinwithoutinvitation,andare alwaysspeakingofpersonsandnotofprinciples, whichisunlikethespiritof philosophy. Forthetruephilosopherdespisesearthlystrife;hiseyeisfixedon theeternalorderinaccordancewithwhichhemouldshimselfintotheDivine image (and not himself only, but other men), and is the creator of the virtues private as well as public. When mankind see that the happiness of states is only to be found in that image, will they be angry with us for attempting to delineate it? ’Certainly not. But what will be the process of delineation?’ The http://www.idph.net 68 IDPH artist will do nothing until he has made a tabula rasa; on this he will inscribe theconstitutionofastate,glancingoftenatthedivinetruthofnature,andfrom thatderivingthegodlikeamongmen,minglingthetwoelements,rubbingout and painting in, until there is a perfect harmony or fusion of the divine and human.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
