There is no bit of sarcasm that hits harder than his quiet comment that most of Jesus’ teachings don’t match the way regular Christians actually live. He says, “Most of his teachings are more different from how people act today than my story was. But preachers, who are clever and sneaky, probably following your advice because they saw people wanted to fit their behavior to Jesus’ rules, have twisted his teachings. They have forced his words onto people’s actions so they could somehow make them fit together.”

The "New Atlantis" is just a small part and not as good as "Utopia." It’s full of clever ideas but doesn’t have much imagination, and it doesn’t really feel believable. In some ways, Lord Bacon is very different from Sir Thomas More. For example, Bacon describes in detail the fancy clothes of the leader of Solomon’s House, but More thought such fancy stuff was silly. Still, after describing the clothes, Bacon adds a nice detail that the leader looked like he felt sorry for people. Bacon also borrows some ideas from the "Timaeus," but he messes up the style by mixing in thoughts from the Hebrew Scriptures.

The "City of the Sun," written by Campanella (1568-1639), a Dominican monk, a few years after Bacon’s "New Atlantis," is quite similar to Plato’s Republic. People in the city share wives and children, and marriages are temporary, arranged by leaders from time to time. But instead of choosing partners by chance, they match the best men and women “according to smart rules.” Babies stay with their mothers in public temples until they are two years old. Since most parents teach their kids badly, when kids turn three, the State takes care of them. At first, they learn not from books but from pictures on the city walls.

The city has six walls inside and one outer wall, making seven in total. The outer wall has paintings of law makers and thinkers, and each inner wall shows symbols for different sciences. Women, like men, are trained in fighting and other skills, but they also have two special jobs. After a battle, women and boys help take care of the injured soldiers and cheer them up with hugs and kind words. The city keeps some parts of the Christian or Catholic religion. They admire the life of the Apostles a lot because they shared everything. They also use the short prayer Jesus taught in their worship.

The top leaders have the job of forgiving sins, so everyone secretly tells their sins to the leaders, and the leaders tell them to the top chief, who is like a spiritual boss. This way, the chief knows what people are thinking and feeling.
