He has started to come up with general ideas and is ahead of Cephalus and Polemarchus in this way. But he can’t really defend these ideas in a discussion, and he tries to hide his confusion by joking around and being rude. It’s not clear if the ideas Plato says he had were really his or belonged to any other Sophist. In the early days of philosophy, serious mistakes about what’s right and wrong could easily happen—they are even put into the mouths of speakers in Thucydides. But right now, we are only interested in what Plato says about him, not what actually happened.

The difference in skill between the two adds a lot of humor to the scene. The showy but empty Sophist is completely helpless against the great master of argument, who knows exactly how to hit his weaknesses and pride. The Sophist gets really annoyed by Socrates’ sarcasm, but his loud and silly anger only makes him more open to Socrates’ clever attacks. The Sophist’s attempt to force his ideas into their minds, or as he says, ‘put his soul into theirs,’ makes Socrates shout in horror. His mood is just as interesting as the argument itself. Nothing is funnier than how completely he gives up after being totally beaten. At first, he seems unwilling to keep talking, but soon he joins in with some interest and even makes a few comments later on.

When Glaucon attacks him, Socrates jokingly defends him as someone who was never his enemy and is now his friend. From Cicero, Quintilian, and Aristotle’s Rhetoric, we learn that the Sophist Plato made look so silly was actually an important man whose writings were saved for later generations.

There was a joke about his name made by his contemporary Herodicus, ‘you were always bold in battle,’ which shows that the description of him is probably true.

After Thrasymachus is silenced, the two main responders, Glaucon and Adeimantus, come onto the scene. Like in Greek plays, three actors appear here. At first, the two sons of Ariston might look alike, like the two friends Simmias and Cebes in the Phaedo. But if you look closely, their similarities disappear, and you see they are very different people. Glaucon is the wild young guy who ‘just can’t get enough of fighting’; he enjoys pleasure and knows all about love. He loves art and music and has all the experiences of a young life. He’s sharp and smart, easily seeing past Thrasymachus’ clumsy words to the real problem. He shows the funny side of human life but still believes in what’s right and true. Glaucon understands the strange relationship between philosophers and the world, calling a simple life ‘a city of pigs.’ He is always ready with a joke when the argument allows it and enjoys Socrates’ humor and the silly things people do—whether it’s music experts, theatre lovers, or the strange behavior of people in a democracy.
