–how else can they come there? Take the quality of passion or spirit;–itwouldberidiculoustoimaginethatthisquality,whenfoundinStates, is not derived from the individuals who are supposed to possess it, e.g. the Thracians,Scythians,andingeneralthenorthernnations;andthesamemaybe saidoftheloveofknowledge,whichisthespecialcharacteristicofourpartof theworld, oroftheloveofmoney, whichmay, withequaltruth,beattributed tothePhoeniciansandEgyptians.
 
 Exactlyso,hesaid.
 
 Thereisnodifficultyinunderstandingthis.
 
 Nonewhatever.
 
 But the question is not quite so easy when we proceed to ask whether these principlesarethreeorone;whether,thatistosay,welearnwithonepartofour nature, are angry with another, and with a third part desire the satisfaction of ournaturalappetites;orwhetherthewholesoulcomesintoplayineachsortof action–todeterminethatisthedifficulty.
 
 Yes,hesaid;thereliesthedifficulty.
 
 Thenletusnowtryanddeterminewhethertheyarethesameordifferent.
 
 Howcanwe? heasked.
 
 Irepliedasfollows: Thesamethingclearlycannotactorbeacteduponinthe same part or in relation to the same thing at the same time, in contrary ways; andthereforewheneverthiscontradictionoccursinthingsapparentlythesame, weknowthattheyarereallynotthesame,butdifferent.
 
 Good.
 
 Forexample,Isaid,canthesamethingbeatrestandinmotionatthesametime inthesamepart?
 
 Impossible.
 
 Still,Isaid,letushaveamoreprecisestatementofterms,lestweshouldhereafter fall out by the way. Imagine the case of a man who is standing and also movinghishandsandhishead,andsupposeapersontosaythatoneandthe samepersonisinmotionandatrestatthesamemoment–tosuchamodeofspeech we should object, and should rather say that one part of him is in motion whileanotherisatrest.
 
 Verytrue.
 
 Andsupposetheobjectortorefinestillfurther,andtodrawthenicedistinction that not only parts of tops, but whole tops, when they spin round with their pegsfixedonthespot,areatrestandinmotionatthesametime(andhemay http://www.idph.net 294 IDPH saythesameofanythingwhichrevolvesinthesamespot),hisobjectionwould notbeadmittedbyus,becauseinsuchcasesthingsarenotatrestandinmotion in the same parts of themselves; we should rather say that they have both an axisandacircumference,andthattheaxisstandsstill,forthereisnodeviation from the perpendicular; and that the circumference goes round.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
