Whereasthephysicianandthecarpenterhavedifferentnatures?
 
 Certainly.
 
 Andif,Isaid,themaleandfemalesexappeartodifferintheirfitnessforanyart orpursuit, weshouldsaythatsuchpursuitorartoughttobeassignedtoone ortheotherofthem; butifthedifferenceconsistsonlyinwomenbearingand men begetting children, this does not amount to a proof that a woman differs fromamaninrespectofthesortofeducationsheshouldreceive;andweshall thereforecontinuetomaintainthatourguardiansandtheirwivesoughttohave thesamepursuits.
 
 Verytrue,hesaid.
 
 Next,weshallaskouropponenthow,inreferencetoanyofthepursuitsorarts ofciviclife,thenatureofawomandiffersfromthatofaman?
 
 Thatwillbequitefair.
 
 Andperhapshe,likeyourself,willreplythattogiveasufficientansweronthe instantisnoteasy;butafteralittlereflectionthereisnodifficulty.
 
 Yes,perhaps.
 
 Suppose then that we invite him to accompany us in the argument, and then wemayhopetoshowhimthatthereisnothingpeculiarintheconstitutionof womenwhichwouldaffectthemintheadministrationoftheState.
 
 Byallmeans.
 
 Letussaytohim:Comenow,andwewillaskyouaquestion:–whenyouspoke of a nature gifted or not gifted in any respect, did you mean to say that one man will acquire a thing easily, another with difficulty; a little learning will leadtheonetodiscoveragreatdeal; whereastheother,aftermuchstudyand application,nosoonerlearnsthanheforgets; oragain,didyoumean,thatthe one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?–would not these be the sort of differences which distinguishthemangiftedbynaturefromtheonewhoisungifted?
 
 Noonewilldenythat.
 
 And can you mention any pursuit of mankind in which the male sex has not all these gifts and qualities in a higher degree than the female? Need I waste time in speaking of the art of weaving, and the management of pancakes and preserves, in which womankind does really appear to be great, and in which forhertobebeatenbyamanisofallthingsthemostabsurd?
 
 Youarequiteright,hereplied,inmaintainingthegeneralinferiorityofthefehttp://www.idph.net 312 IDPH malesex:althoughmanywomenareinmanythingssuperiortomanymen,yet onthewholewhatyousayistrue.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
