’ Andstillhethinksthattheremaybeamoreexcellent way, but to this no man’s reason can attain unless heaven should inspire himwithahighertruth.Hisceremoniesbeforemarriage;hishumaneproposal that war should be carried on by assassinating the leaders of the enemy, may becomparedtosomeoftheparadoxesofPlato. Hehasacharmingfancy,like theaffinitiesofGreeksandbarbariansintheTimaeus,thattheUtopianslearnt the language of the Greeks with the more readiness because they were originallyofthesameracewiththem. HeispenetratedwiththespiritofPlato,and quotesoradaptsmanythoughtsbothfromtheRepublicandfromtheTimaeus.
 
 Hepreferspublicdutiestoprivate,andissomewhatimpatientoftheimportunityofrelations. Hiscitizenshavenosilverorgoldoftheirown,butareready enoughtopaythemtotheirmercenaries. Thereisnothingofwhichheismore contemptuousthantheloveofmoney. Goldisusedforfettersofcriminals,and diamondsandpearlsforchildren’snecklaces(Whentheambassadorscamearrayedingoldandpeacocks’feathers’totheeyesofalltheUtopiansexceptvery few,whichhadbeeninothercountriesforsomereasonablecause,allthatgorgeousnessofapparelseemedshamefulandreproachful. Insomuchthatthey most reverently saluted the vilest and most abject of them for lords–passing over the ambassadors themselves without any honour, judging them by their wearingofgoldenchainstobebondmen. Youshouldhaveseenchildrenalso, thathadcastawaytheirpearlsandpreciousstones,whentheysawthelikestickingupontheambassadors’caps,digandpushtheirmothersunderthesides, saying thus to them–"Look, though he were a little child still."But the mother; yeaandthatalsoingoodearnest: "Peace,son,"saithshe,"Ithinkhebesomeof theambassadors’fools."’) LikePlatoheisfullofsatiricalreflectionsongovernmentsandprinces; onthe stateoftheworldandofknowledge. Theheroofhisdiscourse(Hythloday)is very unwilling to become a minister of state, considering that he would lose his independence and his advice would never be heeded (Compare an exquisite passage, of which the conclusion is as follows: ’And verily it is naturally given...suppressedandended.’) Heridiculesthenewlogicofhistime;theUtopians could never be made to understand the doctrine of Second Intentions (’Fortheyhavenotdevisedoneofallthoserulesofrestrictions,amplifications, and suppositions, very wittily invented in the small Logicals, which here our childrenineveryplacedolearn. Furthermore,theywereneveryetabletofind outthesecondintentions; insomuchthatnoneofthemallcouldeverseeman himselfincommon, astheycallhim, thoughhebe(asyouknow)biggerthan waseveranygiant,yea,andpointedtoofusevenwithourfinger.’) Heisvery severeonthesportsofthegentry;theUtopianscount’huntingthelowest,the vilest, and the most abject part of butchery.’ He quotes the words of the Republic in which the philosopher is described ’standing out of the way under a wall until the driving storm of sleet and rain be overpast,’ which admit of a http://www.idph.net 172 IDPH singularapplicationtoMore’sownfate;although,writingtwentyyearsbefore (about the year 1514), he can hardly be supposed to have foreseen this.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
