As in the State, so in the individual, there are allies on both sides, temptations from withoutandpassionsfromwithin;thereisreasonalsoandexternalinfluences of parents and friends in alliance with the oligarchical principle; and the two factionsareinviolentconflictwithoneanother. Sometimesthepartyoforder prevails, but then again new desires and new disorders arise, and the whole mobofpassionsgetspossessionoftheAcropolis,thatistosay,thesoul,which theyfindvoidandunguardedbytruewordsandworks. Falsehoodsandillusionsascendtotaketheirplace; theprodigalgoesbackintothecountryofthe Lotophagi or drones, and openly dwells there. And if any offer of alliance or parleyofindividualelderscomesfromhome,thefalsespiritsshutthegatesof the castle and permit no one to enter,–there is a battle, and they gain the victory; and straightway making alliance with the desires, they banish modesty, which they call folly, and send temperance over the border. When the house has been swept and garnished, they dress up the exiled vices, and, crowning themwithgarlands,bringthembackundernewnames. Insolencetheycallgoodbreeding,anarchyfreedom,wastemagnificence,impudencecourage. Such is the process by which the youth passes from the necessary pleasures to the unnecessary. Afterawhilehedivideshistimeimpartiallybetweenthem; and perhaps,whenhegetsolderandtheviolenceofpassionhasabated,herestores some of the exiles and lives in a sort of equilibrium, indulging first one pleasure and then another; and if reason comes and tells him that some pleasures aregoodandhonourable,andothersbadandvile,heshakeshisheadandsays thathecanmakenodistinctionbetweenthem. Thushelivesinthefancyofthe hour;sometimeshetakestodrink,andthenheturnsabstainer;hepractisesin thegymnasiumorhedoesnothingatall;thenagainhewouldbeaphilosopher orapolitician;oragain,hewouldbeawarriororamanofbusiness;heis ’Everythingbystartsandnothinglong.’ ThereremainsstillthefinestandfairestofallmenandallStates–tyrannyand thetyrant. Tyrannyspringsfromdemocracymuchasdemocracyspringsfrom oligarchy. Botharisefromexcess;theonefromexcessofwealth,theotherfrom excessoffreedom. ’Thegreatnaturalgoodoflife,’ saysthedemocrat, ’isfreedom.’Andthisexclusiveloveoffreedomandregardlessnessofeverythingelse, isthecauseofthechangefromdemocracytotyranny. TheStatedemandsthe strongwineoffreedom,andunlessherrulersgiveheraplentifuldraught,punishes and insults them; equality and fraternity of governors and governed is theapprovedprinciple. Anarchyisthelaw,notoftheStateonly,butofprivate houses,andextendseventotheanimals. Fatherandson,citizenandforeigner, teacher and pupil, old and young, are all on a level; fathers and teachers fear theirsonsandpupils,andthewisdomoftheyoungmanisamatchfortheelhttp://www.idph.net 96 IDPH der,andtheoldimitatethejauntymannersoftheyoungbecausetheyareafraid ofbeingthoughtmorose.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
