Good,hesaid.
 
 Such,Isaid,isthetimocraticalyouth,andheislikethetimocraticalState.
 
 Exactly.
 
 Hisoriginisasfollows:–Heisoftentheyoungsonofabravefather,whodwells in an ill-governed city, of which he declines the honours and offices, and will not go to law, or exert himself in any way, but is ready to waive his rights in orderthathemayescapetrouble.
 
 Andhowdoesthesoncomeintobeing?
 
 Thecharacterofthesonbeginstodevelopewhenhehearshismothercomplainingthatherhusbandhasnoplaceinthegovernment,ofwhichtheconsequenceisthatshehasnoprecedenceamongotherwomen. Further, whenshesees her husband not very eager about money, and instead of battling and railing in the law courts or assembly, taking whatever happens to him quietly; and when she observes that his thoughts always centre in himself, while he treats her with very considerable indifference, she is annoyed, and says to her son that his father is only half a man and far too easy-going: adding all the other complaintsaboutherownill-treatmentwhichwomenaresofondofrehearsing.
 
 Yes,saidAdeimantus,theygiveusplentyofthem,andtheircomplaintsareso likethemselves.
 
 Andyouknow,Isaid,thattheoldservantsalso,whoaresupposedtobeattachedtothefamily,fromtimetotimetalkprivatelyinthesamestraintotheson; and if they see any one who owes money to his father, or is wronging him in anyway,andhefailstoprosecutethem,theytelltheyouththatwhenhegrows up he must retaliate upon people of this sort, and be more of a man than his father.Hehasonlytowalkabroadandhehearsandseesthesamesortofthing: thosewhodotheirownbusinessinthecityarecalledsimpletons,andheldin no esteem, while the busy-bodies are honoured and applauded. The result is thattheyoungman,hearingandseeingallthesethings–hearing,too,thewords of his father, and having a nearer view of his way of life, and making comparisonsofhimandothers–isdrawnoppositeways: whilehisfatheriswatering andnourishingtherationalprincipleinhissoul,theothersareencouragingthe passionateandappetitive;andhebeingnotoriginallyofabadnature,buthaving kept bad company, is at last brought by their joint influence to a middle point,andgivesupthekingdomwhichiswithinhimtothemiddleprincipleof contentiousnessandpassion,andbecomesarrogantandambitious.
 
 Youseemtometohavedescribedhisoriginperfectly.
 
 Thenwehavenow,Isaid,thesecondformofgovernmentandthesecondtype http://www.idph.net 408 IDPH ofcharacter?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
