Looking into the orb of light, he sees nothing, but he feels warm and lifted up. The Hebrew prophet believed that faith in God would help him control the world. The Greek philosopher thought that thinking about what is good would help someone become a lawmaker. Both have a lot to figure out, and each way of thinking means something different to the Israelite and the Greek. Both find peace in a perfect divine being, which exists without them but also within them, whether it’s seen as personal or not.

There is no talk about the idea of good in the Timaeus, nor about God creating the world in the Republic. This makes us wonder how these ideas connect. Is God above or below the idea of good? Or is the Idea of Good just another way to think about God? The second option seems more likely. For the Greek philosopher, God’s perfection and unity were a much bigger idea than a personal being, something he struggled to describe and thought came from myths.

For Christians or modern thinkers, it’s hard or impossible to believe in something they call an abstraction with real meaning. But for Plato, this abstraction is actually the most real thing of all.

Because of these different ways of thinking, it might seem like Plato is just making things up in his mind. But if we think of the idea of good as the smart principle that creates law and order in the universe, including both humans and nature, we start to see a connection between his ideas and ours.

The question of whether a ruler or politician should be a philosopher is still interesting today. In many countries in Europe and Asia, there have been leaders who combined power with deep thought, but also many who didn’t. Some kind of thoughtful ability is needed in practical and political life. Like the speaker in the Phaedrus, people need to understand different kinds of human character and be able to rise above everyday problems in big moments.

But the idea of a philosopher-ruler has never been popular with most people. This is partly because such a person can’t share all their plans or make others understand why they act the way they do. People are also jealous of a power they don’t get. The big changes that people want to happen slowly over many years might happen suddenly in one year or life because of the philosopher-ruler. People fear that he might ignore common feelings and focus too much on the future or the past, missing what is happening right now. Also, as Plato would say, there are other problems with these philosopher-rulers.
