There is another lesson in this story. Some people think teaching is like giving eyes to someone who can’t see. But really, the ability to see is already there; the soul just needs to be turned toward the light. This is what we call conversion. Other good habits are like body habits and can be learned the same way. But intelligence is special and lasts forever. It can be turned toward good or bad depending on how it is guided.

Have you ever noticed how a smart bad person’s mind shows in their eyes? The clearer they see, the worse things they do. Now, if you take away the heavy desires and pleasures that hold that person down, their intelligence will turn around, and they will see the truth clearly, like they now see their selfish goals.

We have also decided that our leaders should not be so uneducated that they have no clear way of living, but also not so educated that they don’t want to leave their comfortable lives to work for the world. We have to pick people who are most likely to reach the light and understand what is good. But they can’t just stay in the light; they must go back down to join the others and share their work and honors.

You might think this is too hard for them. But remember, the reason we created the State is not so people do whatever they want, but so they serve the State for the good of everyone.

Now, we can fairly say to our philosopher friend, “Hey, you might think we are wrong. In other places, philosophy grows wild and doesn’t owe anything to the rulers. But you have been trained to be the leaders and kings of our community. So, we must insist that you go down into the cave. Each of you must take your turn and learn to see in the dark. With some practice, you will see much better than those who fight over shadows, whose knowledge is just a dream. Yours will be real and awake.”

Maybe the wisest or most holy philosopher is the least willing to rule, but if needed, they must leave their perfect world of ideas. And this will save the State. Those who rule should not want to rule. If you can give our people a better life than most rulers do, then maybe the rich, who have wealth and wisdom, can lead. And the best life is the life of a philosopher, which also prepares them well for ruling a State.

So now the question is: How do we create our rulers? How do we move from darkness to light? This change happens through philosophy. It’s not like flipping an oyster shell; it’s turning a soul from night to day, from not truly living to truly being. And what kind of training will lift the soul up?

Our old education had two parts: gymnastic, which worked on the body, and music, which brought natural harmony to the mind and literature. But neither of these taught what we really want.
