Tell me, if you see the thicket move first. ’Nay, I would have you lead.’ Well then, offer upaprayerandfollow. Thewayisdarkanddifficult;butwemustpushon. I begintoseeatrack. ’Goodnews.’ Why,Glaucon,ourdulnessofscentisquite ludicrous! Whilewearestrainingoureyesintothedistance,justiceistumbling out at our feet. We are as bad as people looking for a thing which they have intheirhands. Haveyouforgottenouroldprincipleofthedivisionoflabour, or of every man doing his own business, concerning which we spoke at the foundation of the State–what but this was justice? Is there any other virtue remaining which can compete with wisdom and temperance and courage in thescaleofpoliticalvirtue?For’everyonehavinghisown’isthegreatobjectof government;andthegreatobjectoftradeisthateverymanshoulddohisown business. Notthatthereismuchharminacarpentertryingtobeacobbler,or a cobbler transforming himself into a carpenter; but great evil may arise from the cobbler leaving his last and turning into a guardian or legislator, or when a single individual is trainer, warrior, legislator, all in one. And this evil is injustice,oreverymandoinganother’sbusiness. Idonotsaythatasyetweare inaconditiontoarriveatafinalconclusion.Forthedefinitionwhichwebelieve toholdgoodinstateshasstilltobetestedbytheindividual. Havingreadthe large letters we will now come back to the small. From the two together a brilliantlightmaybestruckout...
 
 Socratesproceedstodiscoverthenatureofjusticebyamethodofresidues. Eachofthefirstthreevirtuescorrespondstooneofthethreepartsofthesouland one of the three classes in the State, although the third, temperance, has more of the nature of a harmony than the first two. If there be a fourth virtue, that can only be sought for in the relation of the three parts in the soul or classes in the State to one another. It is obvious and simple, and for that very reason has not been found out. The modern logician will be inclined to object that ideascannotbeseparatedlikechemicalsubstances, butthattheyrunintoone anotherandmaybeonlydifferentaspectsornamesofthesamething,andsuch inthisinstanceappearstobethecase. Forthedefinitionheregivenofjusticeis verballythesameasoneofthedefinitionsoftemperancegivenbySocratesin theCharmides,whichhoweverisonlyprovisional,andisafterwardsrejected.
 
 Andsofarfromjusticeremainingoverwhentheothervirtuesareeliminated, thejusticeandtemperanceoftheRepubliccanwithdifficultybedistinguished.
 
 Temperance appears to be the virtue of a part only, and one of three, whereas justiceisauniversalvirtueofthewholesoul. Yetontheotherhandtemperance is also described as a sort of harmony, and in this respect is akin to justice.
 
 Justiceseemstodifferfromtemperanceindegreeratherthaninkind;whereas temperance is theharmony of discordant elements, justice is the perfect order by which all natures and classes do their own business, the right man in the rightplace,thedivisionandco-operationofallthecitizens. Justice,again,isa http://www.idph.net 52 IDPH moreabstractnotionthantheothervirtues,andtherefore,fromPlato’spointof view,thefoundationofthem,towhichtheyarereferredandwhichinideaprecedesthem.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
