Each government and person has a different level of ethics. The perfect State is ruled by reason, which doesn’t kill feelings but balances them and helps people become good. In a timocracy, the government and person are based mostly on courage and the love of honor. This love of honor, which isn’t really a true virtue, becomes the most important thing.

In the next stage of decline, virtues disappear completely, and the love of money takes over. In the third stage, democracy, all kinds of feelings run wild, and both good and bad behaviors grow equally. But this freedom isn’t really strong; it’s actually a sign of weakness and chaos. Finally, one extreme passion controls a person completely—this is called tyranny. In all these stages, having too much wealth and then too much freedom causes the system to fall apart.

The eighth book of the Republic is full of vivid images and creative comparisons. It uses metaphorical language more than any other part of Plato’s work. We can notice: (1) the idea of two groups in one country, which became more separated in ancient Greek city-states, feudal times, and maybe even today; (2) the idea of democracy as equality among people who are actually very different; (3) how free and easy behavior is typical of liberty, while tyrants rely on foreign soldiers and constant distrust; (4) the suggestion that debts shouldn’t be forced to be paid back by law, an idea that reformers have thought about many times and fits with modern laws. In ancient times, debt and land were big problems; today, we’ve mostly solved the debt issue but not the land problem.

There are also interesting pictures of individuals: a family scene with the father, mother, and old servant of the timocratic man; the respectable but mean nature of the oligarch; the wild freedom of the democrat, who is like the young Alcibiades doing whatever he wants, right or wrong, and eventually, like the prodigal son, leaves for a faraway place (notice the wordplay where the democratic man is shown as a State with a fortress and receiving visitors); and finally, the wild animal-like nature that breaks free in the next ruler.
