But who can oppose the voice of prudencetothe’mightiestpassionsofmankind’(Laws),especiallywhenthey have been licensed by custom and religion? In addition to the influences of education,weseemtorequiresomenewprinciplesofrightandwronginthese matters,someforceofopinion,whichmayindeedbealreadyheardwhispering inprivate,buthasneveraffectedthemoralsentimentsofmankindingeneral.
 
 We unavoidably lose sight of the principle of utility, just in that action of our livesinwhichwehavethemostneedofit. Theinfluenceswhichwecanbring to bear upon this question are chiefly indirect. In a generation or two, education, emigration, improvements in agriculture and manufactures, may have providedthesolution. Thestatephysicianhardlylikestoprobethewound: it isbeyondhisart;amatterwhichhecannotsafelyletalone,butwhichhedare nottouch: ’Wedobutskinandfilmtheulcerousplace.’ Whenagaininprivatelifeweseeawholefamilyonebyonedroppingintothe graveundertheAteofsomeinheritedmalady,andtheparentsperhapssurvivingthem,doourmindsevergobacksilentlytothatdaytwenty-fiveorthirty yearsbeforeonwhichunderthefairestauspices,amidtherejoicingsoffriends andacquaintances,abrideandbridegroomjoinedhandswithoneanother? In makingsuchareflectionwearenotopposingphysicalconsiderationstomoral, butmoraltophysical; weareseekingtomakethevoiceofreasonheard, whichdrivesusbackfromtheextravaganceofsentimentalismoncommonsense.
 
 The late Dr. Combe is said by his biographer to have resisted the temptation to marriage, because he knew that he was subject to hereditary consumption.
 
 One who deserved to be called a man of genius, a friend of my youth, was in the habit of wearing a black ribbon on his wrist, in order to remind him that, beingliabletooutbreaksofinsanity,hemustnotgivewaytothenaturalimpulses of affection: he died unmarried in a lunatic asylum. These two little facts suggest the reflection that a very few persons have done from a sense of duty whattherestofmankindoughttohavedoneunderlikecircumstances,ifthey had allowed themselves to think of all the misery which they were about to bringintotheworld. Ifwecouldpreventsuchmarriageswithoutanyviolation of feeling or propriety, we clearly ought; and the prohibition in the course of time would be protected by a ’horror naturalis’ similar to that which, in all civilized ages and countries, has prevented the marriage of near relations by blood. Mankind would have been the happier, if some things which are now allowedhadfromthebeginningbeendeniedtothem;ifthesanctionofreligion could have prohibited practices inimical to health; if sanitary principles could in early ages have been invested with a superstitious awe. But, living as we do far on in the world’s history, we are no longer able to stamp at once with http://www.idph.net IDPH 147 theimpressofreligionanewprohibition.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
