Youareright,hereplied.
 
 Two virtues remain to be discovered in the State–first, temperance, and then justicewhichistheendofoursearch.
 
 Verytrue.
 
 Now,canwefindjusticewithouttroublingourselvesabouttemperance?
 
 Idonotknowhowthatcanbeaccomplished,hesaid,nordoIdesirethatjustice should be brought to light and temperance lost sight of; and therefore I wish thatyouwoulddomethefavourofconsideringtemperancefirst.
 
 Certainly,Ireplied,Ishouldnotbejustifiedinrefusingyourrequest.
 
 Thenconsider,hesaid.
 
 Yes,Ireplied;Iwill;andasfarasIcanatpresentsee,thevirtueoftemperance hasmoreofthenatureofharmonyandsymphonythanthepreceding.
 
 Howso? heasked.
 
 Temperance, I replied, is the ordering or controlling of certain pleasures and desires;thisiscuriouslyenoughimpliedinthesayingof’amanbeinghisown master;’andothertracesofthesamenotionmaybefoundinlanguage.
 
 Nodoubt,hesaid.
 
 Thereissomethingridiculousintheexpression’masterofhimself;’forthemaster is also the servant and the servant the master; and in all these modes of speakingthesamepersonisdenoted.
 
 Certainly.
 
 The meaning is, I believe, that in the human soul there is a better and also a worseprinciple; andwhenthebetterhastheworseundercontrol,thenaman issaidtobemasterofhimself;andthisisatermofpraise: butwhen,owingto evil education or association, the better principle, which is also the smaller, is overwhelmedbythegreatermassoftheworse–inthiscaseheisblamedandis calledtheslaveofselfandunprincipled.
 
 Yes,thereisreasoninthat.
 
 Andnow,Isaid,lookatournewly-createdState,andthereyouwillfindoneof these two conditions realized; for the State, as you will acknowledge, may be justlycalledmasterofitself,ifthewords’temperance’and’self-mastery’truly expresstheruleofthebetterpartovertheworse.
 
 Yes,hesaid,Iseethatwhatyousayistrue.
 
 http://www.idph.net 288 IDPH Let me further note that the manifold and complex pleasures and desires and painsaregenerallyfoundinchildrenandwomenandservants,andinthefreemensocalledwhoareofthelowestandmorenumerousclass.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
