Hewassupposedtohavediedinbattle,buttendaysafterwardshisbody wasfounduntouchedbycorruptionandsenthomeforburial. Onthetwelfth dayhewasplacedonthefuneralpyreandtherehecametolifeagain,andtold what he had seen in the world below. He said that his soul went with a great company to a place, in which there were two chasms near together in the earthbeneath,andtwocorrespondingchasmsintheheavenabove. Andthere werejudgessittingintheintermediatespace,biddingthejustascendbytheheavenlywayontherighthand,havingthesealoftheirjudgmentsetuponthem before,whiletheunjust,havingthesealbehind,werebiddentodescendbythe way on the left hand. Him they told to look and listen, as he was to be their messenger to men from the world below. And he beheld and saw the souls departing after judgment at either chasm; some who came from earth, were wornandtravel-stained;others,whocamefromheaven,werecleanandbright.
 
 Theyseemedgladtomeetandrestawhileinthemeadow;heretheydiscoursed with one another of what they had seen in the other world. Those who came fromearthweptattheremembranceoftheirsorrows,butthespiritsfromabovespokeofglorioussightsandheavenlybliss. Hesaidthatforeveryevildeed theywerepunishedtenfold–nowthejourneywasofathousandyears’duration,becausethelifeofmanwasreckonedasahundredyears–andtherewards ofvirtuewereinthesameproportion. Headdedsomethinghardlyworthrepeatingaboutinfantsdyingalmostassoonastheywereborn. Ofparricidesand other murderers he had tortures still more terrible to narrate. He was present when one of the spirits asked– Where is Ardiaeus the Great? (This Ardiaeus wasacrueltyrant,whohadmurderedhisfather,andhiselderbrother,athousand years before.) Another spirit answered, ’He comes not hither, and will never come. And I myself,’ he added, ’actually saw this terrible sight. At the entranceofthechasm, aswewereabouttoreascend, Ardiaeusappeared, and someothersinners–mostofwhomhadbeentyrants,butnotall–andjustasthey fancied that they were returningto life, the chasm gave a roar, and then wild, fiery-looking men who knew the meaning of the sound, seized him and severalothers,andboundthemhandandfootandthrewthemdown,anddragged themalongatthesideoftheroad, laceratingthemandcardingthemlikewool, and explaining to the passers-by, that they were going to be cast into hell.’ Thegreatestterrorofthepilgrimsascendingwaslesttheyshouldhearthevoice, and when there was silence one by one they passed up with joy. To these sufferingstherewerecorrespondingdelights.
 
 Ontheeighthdaythesoulsofthepilgrimsresumedtheirjourney,andinfour days came to a spot whence they looked down upon a line of light, in colour like a rainbow, only brighter and clearer. One day more brought them to the place,andtheysawthatthiswasthecolumnoflightwhichbindstogetherthe whole universe. The ends of the column were fastened to heaven, and from them hung the distaff of Necessity, on which all the heavenly bodies turned– http://www.idph.net IDPH 119 the hook and spindle were of adamant, and the whorl of a mixed substance.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
