Maybe the word "guardian" should only be used for the highest group of people who protect us from enemies outside and keep peace among us at home. This way, no one wants to hurt us, and no one has the power to do it. The young men we called guardians before are actually more like helpers who support the rulers.

I agree with you, he said.

So how can we come up with one of those important lies we talked about? Just one big lie that might trick the rulers, if that's even possible, and maybe the rest of the city too?

What kind of lie? he asked.

Nothing new, I answered; just an old story from the Phoenicians (Laws) about things that have happened before in other places. Poets have told this story and made the world believe it, but it hasn’t happened in our time. I don’t know if it could ever happen again or if it would even be likely now.

Your words sound like you’re unsure! he said.

You won’t be surprised by my hesitating when you hear what I have to say.

Go ahead, he said, and don’t be afraid.

Okay then, I’ll say it, even though I don’t know how to look you in the eye or what words to use for this bold lie. I want to share it slowly: first to the rulers, then the soldiers, and finally to the people.

We will tell them their youth was just a dream, and the education and training they got from us was only for show. In truth, all that time they were actually being made and fed inside the earth, like in a womb. The earth made their bodies, their weapons, and their gear. When they were ready, the earth, their mother, sent them up. So, since their country is their mother and nurse, they have to take care of her and protect her from attacks. They should see the other citizens as brothers, children of the earth.

You had good reason to be ashamed of the lie you were going to tell, he said.

True, I answered, but there’s more to come; I’ve only told you half. We will say to the citizens that they are brothers, but God made them different. Some have the power to lead because God mixed gold into their souls, which is why they get the most honor. Others were made of silver to be helpers or soldiers. Others, who will be farmers and workers, were made of brass and iron. These differences will usually stay in their children too.
