Anticipations or divinations, or prophetic glimpses of truths whether concerning man or nature, seem to stand in the same relation to ancient philosophy which hypotheses bear to moderninductivescience. These’guessesattruth’werenotmadeatrandom; they arose from a superficial impression of uniformities and first principles in naturewhichthegeniusoftheGreek,contemplatingtheexpanseofheavenand earth,seemedtorecognizeinthedistance. Norcanwedenythatinancienttimes knowledge must have stood still, and the human mind been deprived of theveryinstrumentsofthought,ifphilosophyhadbeenstrictlyconfinedtothe resultsofexperience.
 
 2. Platosupposesthatwhenthetablethasbeenmadeblanktheartistwillfillin thelineamentsoftheidealstate. Isthisapatternlaidupinheaven,ormerevacancyonwhichheissupposedtogazewithwonderingeye?Theansweris,that suchidealsareframedpartlybytheomissionofparticulars,partlybyimaginationperfectingtheformwhichexperiencesupplies(Phaedo). Platorepresents theseidealsinafigureasbelongingtoanotherworld;andinmoderntimesthe ideawillsometimesseemtoprecede,atothertimestoco-operatewiththehand oftheartist. Asinscience, soalsoincreativeart, thereisasyntheticalaswell as an analytical method. One man will have the whole in his mind before he begins;toanothertheprocessesofmindandhandwillbesimultaneous.
 
 3. ThereisnodifficultyinseeingthatPlato’sdivisionsofknowledgearebased, first,onthefundamentalantithesisofsensibleandintellectualwhichpervades the whole pre-Socratic philosophy; in which is implied also the opposition of the permanent and transient, of the universal and particular. But the age of philosophyinwhichhelivedseemedtorequireafurtherdistinction;–numbers and figures were beginning to separate from ideas. The world could no longer regard justice as a cube, and was learning to see, though imperfectly, that theabstractionsofsenseweredistinctfromtheabstractionsofmind. Between the Eleatic being or essence and the shadows of phenomena, the Pythagorean principleofnumberfoundaplace,andwas,asAristotleremarks,aconducting mediumfromonetotheother.HencePlatoisledtointroduceathirdtermwhichhadnothithertoenteredintotheschemeofhisphilosophy.Hehadobserved theuseofmathematicsineducation;theywerethebestpreparationforhigher studies. The subjective relation between them further suggested an objective one;althoughthepassagefromonetotheotherisreallyimaginary(Metaph.).
 
 For metaphysical and moral philosophy has no connexion with mathematics; number and figure are the abstractions of time and space, not the expressions of purely intellectual conceptions. When divested of metaphor, a straight line or a square has no more to do with right and justice than a crooked line with vice. Thefigurativeassociationwasmistakenforarealone;andthusthethree http://www.idph.net IDPH 75 latterdivisionsofthePlatonicproportionwereconstructed.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
