Proceed.
 
 Idaresaythatyouremember,andthereforeIneednotremindyou,thatalover, ifheisworthyofthename,oughttoshowhislove,nottosomeonepartofthat whichheloves,buttothewhole.
 
 Ireallydonotunderstand,andthereforebegofyoutoassistmymemory.
 
 Anotherperson,Isaid,mightfairlyreplyasyoudo;butamanofpleasurelike yourselfoughttoknowthatallwhoareintheflowerofyouthdosomehowor otherraiseapangoremotioninalover’sbreast,andarethoughtbyhimtobe worthy of his affectionate regards. Is not this a way which you have with the fair: one has a snub nose, and you praise his charming face; the hook-nose of another has, you say, a royal look; while he who is neither snub nor hooked has the grace of regularity: the dark visage is manly, the fair are children of thegods; andastothesweet’honeypale,’ astheyarecalled, whatisthevery name but the invention of a lover who talks in diminutives, and is not averse to paleness if appearing on the cheek of youth? In a word, there is no excuse whichyou will notmake, and nothingwhich you willnot say, in ordernot to loseasingleflowerthatbloomsinthespring-timeofyouth.
 
 Ifyoumakemeanauthorityinmattersoflove,forthesakeoftheargument,I assent.
 
 Andwhatdoyousayofloversofwine? Doyounotseethemdoingthesame?
 
 Theyaregladofanypretextofdrinkinganywine.
 
 Verygood.
 
 Andthesameistrueofambitiousmen;iftheycannotcommandanarmy,they are willing to command a file; and if they cannot be honoured by really great and important persons, they are glad to be honoured by lesser and meaner people,–buthonourofsomekindtheymusthave.
 
 Exactly.
 
 Oncemoreletmeask:Doeshewhodesiresanyclassofgoods,desirethewhole classorapartonly?
 
 Thewhole.
 
 Andmaywenotsayofthephilosopherthatheisalover,notofapartofwisdom only,butofthewhole?
 
 Yes,ofthewhole.
 
 And he who dislikes learning, especially in youth, when he has no power of http://www.idph.net IDPH 335 judging what is good and what is not, such an one we maintain not to be a philosopher or a lover of knowledge, just as he who refuses his food is not hungry,andmaybesaidtohaveabadappetiteandnotagoodone?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
