They told each other what had happened along the way. Those from below were crying and sad, remembering all the hard things they had gone through during their long journey underground, which lasted a thousand years. Meanwhile, those from above talked about amazing, beautiful places in heaven that were hard to even imagine.

The story, Glaucon, would take too long to explain, but the main idea was this: for every wrong thing someone did, they had to suffer ten times as much. They believed a person’s life was about a hundred years, so over a thousand years they paid the penalty ten times. For example, if someone caused many deaths, betrayed cities or armies, or did other terrible things, they got punished ten times more. On the other hand, good actions were rewarded in the same way.

He also talked about how young children who died right after being born had their own fate. There were different and bigger punishments for things like disrespecting gods or parents, and for murderers. He said he was there when one spirit asked another, “Where is Ardiaeus the Great?” Ardiaeus was a cruel ruler from a thousand years before Er’s time. He had killed his father and older brother and did many awful crimes.

The other spirit said, “He never comes here and never will.” Er said they saw something terrible. They were at the cave’s entrance, ready to go back up, when suddenly Ardiaeus and some other cruel rulers and criminals showed up. They thought they could return to the world above, but the cave’s mouth made a loud roar whenever someone who hadn’t been fully punished tried to come up. Then fiery, wild men grabbed those sinners, tied them up, whipped them, and dragged them along, telling everyone what crimes they had done and that they were being taken to hell.

Er said the worst fear they all felt was hearing that roar. When it was quiet again, one by one, the spirits went up happily. These were the punishments and rewards, and there were great blessings too.

After the spirits stayed in the meadow for seven days, on the eighth day they had to keep traveling. Four days later, they reached a place where they could see a straight line of light going through the sky and earth. It looked like a rainbow but was brighter and purer. After another day’s journey, they came to the place where the chains of heaven hung down from above. This light was called the belt of heaven, and it held the universe together like the strong beams under a ship.
