You mean you don’t understand what this payment is really about, which is the biggest reason good people want to be leaders? Of course, you know that being greedy and wanting power just for yourself is seen as shameful, right?

That’s true.

Because of this, I said, money and fame don’t attract good people; they don’t want to openly ask for payment for leading and be called hired helpers, or secretly steal public money and be called thieves. Since they aren’t greedy, they don’t care about fame. So, they need to be forced to lead, and they only do it because they’re afraid of being punished. That’s why wanting to become a leader too quickly, instead of waiting to be asked, is seen as bad.

The worst part is that if someone good refuses to lead, they might have to be ruled by someone worse. And the fear of this makes good people take the job—not because they want to, but because they have to. They don’t expect to get any benefit or fun from it, but they do it because no one better can be trusted to lead.

If a city were made up only of good people, then everyone would want to avoid leading just like people now want to get the job. This would show that a true leader cares more about their people than themselves. And anyone who knows this would rather get help from a leader than be the one who has to lead.

I don’t agree with Thrasymachus when he says justice is just what the stronger people want. We don’t need to talk more about that now. But when he says that unfair people have better lives than fair people, that’s a more serious claim. Which one of us is right? And which life do you prefer, Glaucon?

I think the fair life is better, he answered.

Did you hear all the good things Thrasymachus said about being unfair?

Yes, I did, but he didn’t convince me.

Then should we try to prove to him that he is wrong?

Definitely, he replied.

If he makes a speech and we make one listing all the good things about being fair, and then he answers again, we will need someone to judge who is right. But if we keep talking honestly like we are now, we can be both judge and speaker ourselves.
