Only from the poets, who acknowledge that they may be appeased by sacrifices. Then why not sin and pay for indulgences out of your sin? For if therighteousareonlyunpunished,stilltheyhavenofurtherreward,whilethe wickedmaybeunpunishedandhavethepleasureofsinningtoo. Butwhatof theworldbelow? Nay, saystheargument, thereareatoningpowerswhowill setthatmatterright,asthepoets,whoarethesonsofthegods,tellus;andthis isconfirmedbytheauthorityoftheState.
 
 ’Howcanweresistsuchargumentsinfavourofinjustice? Addgoodmanners, and,asthewisetellus,weshallmakethebestofbothworlds. Whothatisnot a miserable caitiff will refrain from smiling at the praises of justice? Even if a manknowsthebetterparthewillnotbeangrywithothers;forheknowsalso thatmorethanhumanvirtueisneededtosaveaman,andthatheonlypraises justicewhoisincapableofinjustice.
 
 ’Theoriginoftheevilisthatallmenfromthebeginning,heroes,poets,instructors of youth, have always asserted "the temporal dispensation,"the honours and profits of justice. Had we been taught in early youth the power of justice andinjusticeinherentinthesoul,andunseenbyanyhumanordivineeye,we shouldnothaveneededotherstobeourguardians,buteveryonewouldhave beentheguardianofhimself. ThisiswhatIwantyoutoshow,Socrates;–other menuseargumentswhichrathertendtostrengthenthepositionofThrasymachus that "might is right;"but from you I expect better things. And please, as Glauconsaid, toexcludereputation; letthejustbethoughtunjustandtheunjustjust,anddoyoustillprovetousthesuperiorityofjustice’...
 
 Thethesis,whichforthesakeofargumenthasbeenmaintainedbyGlaucon,is the converse of that of Thrasymachus–not right is the interest of the stronger, but right is the necessity of the weaker. Starting from the same premises he carries the analysis of society a step further back;–might is still right, but the mightistheweaknessofthemanycombinedagainstthestrengthofthefew.
 
 There have been theories in modern as well as in ancient times which have a family likeness to the speculations of Glaucon; e.g. that power is the foundationofright; orthatamonarchhasadivinerighttogovernwellorill; orthat virtueisself-loveortheloveofpower;orthatwaristhenaturalstateofman;or thatprivatevicesarepublicbenefits. Allsuchtheorieshaveakindofplausibilityfromtheirpartialagreementwithexperience. Forhumannatureoscillates between good and evil, and the motives of actions and the origin of institutionsmaybeexplainedtoacertainextentoneitherhypothesisaccordingtothe character or point of view of a particular thinker. The obligation of maintaining authority under all circumstances and sometimes by rather questionable means is felt strongly and has become a sort of instinct among civilized men.
 
 Thedivinerightofkings,ormoregenerallyofgovernments,isoneoftheforms underwhichthisnaturalfeelingisexpressed. Noragainisthereanyevilwhich http://www.idph.net 26 IDPH hasnotsomeaccompanimentofgoodorpleasure; noranygoodwhichisfree fromsomealloyofevil; noranynobleorgenerousthoughtwhichmaynotbe attendedbyashadowortheghostofashadowofself-interestorofself-love.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
