He can imagine that in some distant age or clime, and through the influence of some individual, the notionofcommonpropertymayormighthavesunkasdeepintotheheartofa race,andhavebecomeasfixedtothem,asprivatepropertyistoourselves. He knows that this latter institution is not more than four or five thousand years old: may not the end revert to the beginning? In our own age even Utopias affectthespiritoflegislation,andanabstractideamayexerciseagreatinfluence onpracticalpolitics.
 
 TheobjectionsthatwouldbegenerallyurgedagainstPlato’scommunityofproperty, are the old ones of Aristotle, that motives for exertion would be taken away,andthatdisputeswouldarisewheneachwasdependentuponall. Every manwouldproduceaslittleandconsumeasmuchasheliked. TheexperienceofcivilizednationshashithertobeenadversetoSocialism. Theeffortistoo greatforhumannature;mentrytoliveincommon,butthepersonalfeelingis alwaysbreakingin. Ontheotherhanditmaybedoubtedwhetherourpresent notions of property are not conventional, for they differ in different countries and in different states of society. We boast of an individualism which is not freedom, but rather an artificial result of the industrial state of modern Europe. Theindividualisnominallyfree,butheisalsopowerlessinaworldbound hand and foot in the chains of economic necessity. Even if we cannot expect themassofmankindtobecomedisinterested,atanyrateweobserveinthema poweroforganizationwhichfiftyyearsagowouldneverhavebeensuspected.
 
 ThesameforceswhichhaverevolutionizedthepoliticalsystemofEurope,may effectasimilarchangeinthesocialandindustrialrelationsofmankind. Andif wesupposetheinfluenceofsomegoodaswellasneutralmotivesworkingin the community, there will be no absurdity in expecting that the mass of mankindhavingpower,andbecomingenlightenedaboutthehigherpossibilitiesof humanlife,whentheylearnhowmuchmoreisattainableforallthanisatpresentthepossessionofafavouredfew,maypursuethecommoninterestwithan intelligenceandpersistencywhichmankindhavehithertoneverseen.
 
 Nowthattheworldhasoncebeensetinmotion,andisnolongerheldfastunder the tyranny of custom and ignorance; now that criticism has pierced the veil of tradition and the past no longer overpowers the present,–the progress of civilization may be expected to be far greater and swifter than heretofore.
 
 Even at our present rate of speed the point at which we may arrive in two or threegenerationsisbeyondthepowerofimaginationtoforesee. Thereareforcesintheworldwhichwork, notinanarithmetical, butinageometricalratio ofincrease. Education,tousetheexpressionofPlato,moveslikeawheelwith an ever-multiplying rapidity. Nor can we say how great may be its influence, whenitbecomesuniversal,–whenithasbeeninheritedbymanygenerations,– when it is freed from the trammels of superstition and rightly adapted to the http://www.idph.net IDPH 137 wants and capacities of different classes of men and women.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
