Theprofession ofanactorwasregardedbyhimasadegradationofhumannature,for’oneman in his life’ cannot ’play many parts;’ the characters which the actor performs seem to destroy his own character, and to leave nothing which can be truly calledhimself. Neithercananymanlivehislifeandactit.Theactoristheslave of his art, not the master of it. Taking this view Plato is more decided in his expulsionofthedramaticthanoftheepicpoets, thoughhemusthaveknown that the Greek tragedians afforded noble lessons and examples of virtue and patriotism, to which nothing in Homer can be compared. But great dramatic or even great rhetorical power is hardly consistent with firmness or strength of mind, and dramatic talent is often incidentally associated with a weak or dissolutecharacter.
 
 In the Tenth Book Plato introduces a new series of objections. First, he says thatthepoetorpainterisanimitator,andinthethirddegreeremovedfromthe truth.Hiscreationsarenottestedbyruleandmeasure;theyareonlyappearances. Inmoderntimesweshouldsaythatartisnotmerelyimitation,butrather theexpressionoftheidealinformsofsense. Evenadoptingthehumbleimage of Plato, from which his argument derives a colour, we should maintain that the artist may ennoble the bed which he paints by the folds of the drapery, or bythefeelingofhomewhichheintroduces;andtherehavebeenmodernpainterswhohaveimpartedsuchanidealinteresttoablacksmith’soracarpenter’s shop. Theeyeormindwhichfeelsaswellasseescangivedignityandpathos toaruinedmill,orastraw-builtshed(Rembrandt),tothehullofavessel’going toitslasthome’(Turner). Stillmorewouldthisapplytothegreatestworksof art, which seem to be the visible embodiment of the divine. Had Plato been askedwhethertheZeusorAtheneofPheidiaswastheimitationofanimitation only,wouldhenothavebeencompelledtoadmitthatsomethingmorewasto befoundinthemthanintheformofanymortal;andthattheruleofproportion towhichtheyconformedwas’higherfarthananygeometryorarithmeticcould express?’ (Statesman.) Again,Platoobjectstotheimitativeartsthattheyexpresstheemotionalrather than the rational part of human nature. He does not admit Aristotle’s theory, thattragedyorotherseriousimitationsareapurgationofthepassionsbypity andfear;tohimtheyappearonlytoaffordtheopportunityofindulgingthem.
 
 Yet we must acknowledge that we may sometimes cure disordered emotions bygivingexpressiontothem; andthattheyoftengainstrengthwhenpentup within our own breast. It is not every indulgence of the feelings which is to becondemned. Fortheremaybeagratificationofthehigheraswellasofthe lower–thoughts which are too deep or too sad to be expressed by ourselves, may find an utterance in the words of poets. Every one would acknowledge thattherehavebeentimeswhentheywereconsoledandelevatedbybeautiful musicorbythesublimityofarchitectureorbythepeacefulnessofnature. Plato http://www.idph.net IDPH 123 has himself admitted, in the earlier part of the Republic, that the arts might have the effect of harmonizing as well as of enervating the mind; but in the TenthBookheregardsthemthroughaStoicorPuritanmedium.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
