And you may suppose that I have repeated the remainder of your tale of horrors.
 
 Butwillyouletmeassume,withoutrecitingthem,thatthesethingsaretrue?
 
 Certainly,hesaid,whatyousayistrue.
 
 These,then,aretheprizesandrewardsandgiftswhicharebestoweduponthe just by gods and men in this present life, in addition to the other good things whichjusticeofherselfprovides.
 
 Yes,hesaid;andtheyarefairandlasting.
 
 And yet, I said, all these are as nothing either in number or greatness in comparison with those other recompenses which await both just and unjust after death. And you ought to hear them, and then both just and unjust will have receivedfromusafullpaymentofthedebtwhichtheargumentowestothem.
 
 Speak,hesaid;therearefewthingswhichIwouldmoregladlyhear.
 
 Well, I said, I will tell you a tale; not one of the tales which Odysseus tells to the hero Alcinous, yet this too is a tale of a hero, Er the son of Armenius, a Pamphylian by birth. He was slain in battle, and ten days afterwards, when thebodiesofthedeadweretakenupalreadyinastateofcorruption,hisbody wasfoundunaffectedbydecay, andcarriedawayhometobeburied. Andon thetwelfthday,ashewaslyingonthefuneralpile,hereturnedtolifeandtold themwhathehadseenintheotherworld. Hesaidthatwhenhissoulleftthe bodyhewentonajourneywithagreatcompany,andthattheycametoamysterious place at which there were two openings in the earth; they were near together,andoveragainstthemweretwootheropeningsintheheavenabove.
 
 Intheintermediatespacetherewerejudgesseated, whocommandedthejust, aftertheyhadgivenjudgmentonthemandhadboundtheirsentencesinfront ofthem,toascendbytheheavenlywayontherighthand;andinlikemanner theunjustwerebiddenbythemtodescendbythelowerwayonthelefthand; thesealsoborethesymbolsoftheirdeeds,butfastenedontheirbacks.Hedrew near, andtheytoldhimthathewastobethemessengerwhowouldcarrythe reportoftheotherworldtomen,andtheybadehimhearandseeallthatwas to be heard and seen in that place. Then he beheld and saw on one side the soulsdepartingateitheropeningofheavenandearthwhensentencehadbeen givenonthem;andatthetwootheropeningsothersouls,someascendingout of the earth dusty and worn with travel, some descending out of heaven clean and bright. And arriving ever and anon they seemed to have come from a longjourney,andtheywentforthwithgladnessintothemeadow, wherethey http://www.idph.net IDPH 479 encampedasatafestival;andthosewhoknewoneanotherembracedandconversed, thesoulswhichcamefromearthcuriouslyenquiringaboutthethings above, andthesoulswhichcamefromheavenaboutthethingsbeneath.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
