Slaves are seen as equal to their masters and mistresses, and there is no difference between men and women. Even the animals in a democracy have more freedom than in other places. Female dogs are as good as their owners, and horses and donkeys walk proudly and push away anyone who gets in their way. That’s something I have often noticed.

In time, the citizens become so sensitive that they can’t stand any laws, whether written or not. They refuse to let anyone call themselves their master. This is the exciting start of a new system, but it also leads to tyranny.

The fall of oligarchy (rule by a few rich people) is also the fall of democracy because too much freedom turns into too much slavery. The more freedom there is, the more slavery there can be.

Remember, in oligarchy, there were two groups: rogues and poor people. We compared them to drones in a beehive—some with stings and some without. These groups are like sickness in the body of the state, so the law-makers try to get rid of them, just like a bee-keeper removes drones.

In democracy, there are also drones, but they are more dangerous and active than in oligarchy. The smarter drones speak and act, while the others just make noise and stop others from being heard. There’s also a group of successful people who can be pressured when the drones want their stuff. Plus, there are workers and craftsmen who make up most of the population.

When the people come together, they have all the power, but they won’t unite without some reward, like a little honey. The rich have to provide this honey, but the leaders (demagogues) keep most of it and only give a small amount to the crowd. The people try to fight back but get angry because of the drones’ stings, and some even become like oligarchs to protect themselves.

This leads to accusations of treason and conflict. The people pick a protector to support and make powerful, and from this grows the tree of tyranny. This change is like an old story about a temple where anyone who eats human flesh turns into a wolf. Similarly, the protector who harms others and talks about canceling debts or dividing land either dies or becomes a tyrant.

Sometimes the protector is forced out but comes back, and if his enemies can’t get rid of him legally, they plan to kill him.

Then the protector asks the people for a bodyguard, which they give him, thinking only about his safety and not theirs. Now the rich man must make sure he can’t run away again. The protector, after defeating all his enemies, stands proudly as a full tyrant in charge of the state.

Let’s now think about what kind of happiness this tyrant really has.
