Art lasts forever in some way; it makes ideas and feelings stay instead of just passing by. It acts like a link between what we see and what we think.

Right now, poetry and stories are definitely good. But we can also imagine a future where a stricter idea of truth might change or get rid of them.

We have to agree that art means different things at different times in history. When people were just starting out, poetry (except for short sayings) was the only kind of literature and the main way to learn. Today, it’s more like a copy or a shadow of what it used to be, and it feels less important. Even Milton once wondered if big epic poems were still possible. At the same time, some poetry’s magic has moved into regular writing; Plato himself said that good speaking helps politics and thought that laws could replace old poets.

Nowadays, it seems like people aren’t as creative, and science grabs more attention than before. Love has been the main inspiration for modern poetry and romance, making people more caring if not stronger. But maybe love won’t inspire stories forever. The English novel is only about 100-200 years old, and after many stories about love, will people still be interested in love stories in a hundred years?

Art can’t be as important as philosophy or religion, and sometimes it can even mess them up. It’s easy to imagine a time when all art is seen as a wrong or weak way to show religious or philosophical ideas. Some religions, like Muslims and certain Christian groups, don’t use pictures or images because of this. Big religions didn’t start with buildings or statues but as feelings in people’s hearts. Early followers met in simple places like upper rooms or caves, then later built mosques, temples, churches, and monasteries. Religious renewals usually come from inside people, ignoring fancy ceremonies.

But poetry and art can also show the deepest truth and pure feelings. Plato seemed unsure about this—he said young people should grow up with good images, but also wanted to get rid of poets in his perfect city.

We know people’s hearts don’t always reach their highest goals, but getting rid of imagination completely would be both crazy and impossible.
