Moreinterestingthan either of these, and far more Platonic in style and thought, is Sir John Eliot’s ’MonarchyofMan,’inwhichtheprisoneroftheTower,nolongerable’tobea politicianinthelandofhisbirth,’ turnsawayfrompoliticstoview’thatother citywhichiswithinhim,’andfindsontheverythresholdofthegravethatthe secretofhumanhappinessisthemasteryofself. Thechangeofgovernmentin thetimeoftheEnglishCommonwealthsetmenthinkingaboutfirstprinciples, and gave rise to many works of this class...The great original genius of Swift owesnothingtoPlato;noristhereanytraceintheconversationorintheworks ofDr. Johnsonofanyacquaintancewithhiswritings. Heprobablywouldhave refuted Plato without reading him, in the same fashion in which he supposed himself to have refuted Bishop Berkeley’s theory of the non-existence of matter. Ifweexcepttheso-calledEnglishPlatonists,orratherNeo-Platonists,who never understood their master, and the writings of Coleridge, who was to someextentakindredspirit, PlatohasleftnopermanentimpressiononEnglish literature.
 
 7. Human life and conduct are affected by ideals in the same way that they are affected by the examples of eminent men. Neither the one nor the other areimmediatelyapplicabletopractice,butthereisavirtueflowingfromthem whichtendstoraiseindividualsabovethecommonroutineofsocietyortrade, andtoelevateStatesabovethemereinterestsofcommerceorthenecessitiesof self-defence. Like the ideals of art they are partly framed by the omission of particulars;theyrequiretobeviewedatacertaindistance,andareapttofade away if we attempt to approach them. They gain an imaginary distinctness when embodied in a State or in a system of philosophy, but they still remain thevisionsof’aworldunrealized.’ Morestrikingandobvioustotheordinary mindaretheexamplesofgreatmen,whohaveservedtheirowngenerationand arerememberedinanother. Eveninourownfamilycircletheremayhavebeen someone,awoman,orevenachild,inwhosefacehasshoneforthagoodness morethanhuman. Theidealthenapproachesnearertous,andwefondlycling to it. The ideal of the past, whether of our own past lives or of former states of society, has a singular fascination for the minds of many. Too late we learn thatsuchidealscannotberecalled,thoughtherecollectionofthemmayhavea humanizinginfluenceonothertimes. Buttheabstractionsofphilosophyareto mostpersonscoldandvacant;theygivelightwithoutwarmth;theyarelikethe fullmoonintheheavenswhentherearenostarsappearing.Mencannotliveby thoughtalone;theworldofsenseisalwaysbreakinginuponthem.Theyarefor themostpartconfinedtoacornerofearth,andseebutalittlewaybeyondtheir ownhomeorplaceofabode;they’donotliftuptheireyestothehills’;theyare notawakewhenthedawnappears. ButinPlatowehavereachedaheightfrom which a man may look into the distance and behold the future of the world and of philosophy. The ideal of the State and of the life of the philosopher; theidealofaneducationcontinuingthroughlifeandextendingequallytoboth http://www.idph.net IDPH 175 sexes;theidealoftheunityandcorrelationofknowledge;thefaithingoodand immortality–are the vacant forms of light on which Plato is seeking to fix the eyeofmankind.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
