Theirconditionisingeniously comparedbyhimtothatofasupposititiousson,whohasmadethediscovery that his reputed parents are not his real ones, and, in consequence, they have losttheirauthorityoverhim.
 
 The distinction between the mathematician and the dialectician is also noticeable. Plato is very well aware that the faculty of the mathematician is quite distinct from the higher philosophical sense which recognizes and combines first principles. The contempt which he expresses for distinctions of words, thedangerofinvoluntaryfalsehood,theapologywhichSocratesmakesforhis earnestness of speech, are highly characteristic of the Platonic style and mode of thought. The quaint notion that if Palamedes was the inventor of number Agamemnoncouldnothavecountedhisfeet;theartbywhichwearemadeto believe that this State of ours is not a dream only; the gravity with which the firststepistakenintheactualcreationoftheState,namely,thesendingoutof the city all who had arrived at ten years of age, in order to expedite the businessofeducationbyageneration,arealsotrulyPlatonic. (Forthelast,compare the passageat the endof the thirdbook, in whichhe expects thelie about the earthbornmentobebelievedinthesecondgeneration.) BOOK VIII. And so we have arrived at the conclusion, that in the perfect Statewivesandchildrenaretobeincommon; andtheeducationandpursuitsof men and women, both in war and peace, are to be common, and kings are to bephilosophersandwarriors,andthesoldiersoftheStatearetolivetogether, havingallthingsincommon; andtheyaretobewarriorathletes,receivingno paybutonlytheirfood,fromtheothercitizens. Nowletusreturntothepoint atwhichwedigressed. ’Thatiseasilydone,’hereplied: ’Youwerespeakingof the State which you had constructed, and of the individual who answered to this, bothofwhomyouaffirmedtobegood; andyousaidthatofinferiorStates there were four forms and four individuals corresponding to them, which althoughdeficientinvariousdegrees,wereallofthemworthinspectingwitha viewtodeterminingtherelativehappinessormiseryofthebestorworstman.
 
 Then Polemarchus and Adeimantus interrupted you, and this led to another argument,–andsohereweare.’ Supposethatweputourselvesagaininthesameposition, anddoyourepeatyourquestion. ’Ishouldliketoknowofwhat constitutionsyouwerespeaking?’ BesidestheperfectStatethereareonlyfour ofanynoteinHellas:–first,thefamousLacedaemonianorCretancommonwealth;secondly,oligarchy,aStatefullofevils;thirdly,democracy,whichfollows nextinorder;fourthly,tyranny,whichisthediseaseordeathofallgovernment.
 
 Now,Statesarenotmadeof’oakandrock,’butoffleshandblood;andtherefore astherearefiveStatestheremustbefivehumannaturesinindividuals,which correspondtothem. Andfirst,thereistheambitiousnature,whichanswersto http://www.idph.net IDPH 91 the Lacedaemonian State; secondly, the oligarchical nature; thirdly, the democratical; and fourthly, the tyrannical.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
