Imagine a ship with a captain who is taller and stronger than anyone else on board, but he is a bit hard of hearing and has poor eyesight. He also doesn’t know much about navigation. The sailors are fighting over who should steer the ship—everyone thinks they have the right to do it, even though none of them have actually learned how to navigate or know who taught them or when. They even say navigation can’t be taught, and they get ready to attack anyone who disagrees.

The sailors crowd around the captain, begging him to give them the helm. If they don’t get their way and someone else is chosen, they kill or throw that person overboard. Then, after getting the captain drunk or drugged to dull his senses, they take over the ship in a rebellion and help themselves to the food and drink. They continue their journey exactly as you might expect from people acting like this.

The one who helps them take control of the ship, whether by force or trickery, is praised as a good sailor, pilot, or able seaman, and they insult anyone who doesn’t join them by calling them useless. But a real pilot must pay attention to the year, seasons, sky, stars, winds, and everything else needed to truly steer a ship. He must be the one in charge, whether others like it or not—this idea has never really occurred to the sailors or become part of their way of thinking. So, on a ship where the crew is mutinying, how will the true pilot be treated? Won’t he be called a dreamer, a star-gazer, or good-for-nothing?

“Of course,” said Adeimantus.

Then you probably don’t need me to explain the meaning of this story, which shows the true philosopher’s relationship to the State, because you already understand.

“Certainly.”

Now, imagine you tell this story to a guy who is surprised that philosophers don’t get respect in their cities. Explain it to him and try to convince him that it would be even more amazing if they did get honor.

“I will.”

Tell him it’s true that the best philosophers seem useless to the rest of the world, but that’s because the people who should use their help refuse to do so—it’s not the philosophers’ fault. The pilot shouldn’t have to beg the sailors to listen to him—that’s not how nature works. And it’s not wise to “go to the doors of the rich” to get help—someone who said that was lying. The truth is, when someone is sick, rich or poor, they must go to a doctor. And when someone wants to be led, they must go to the person who is able to lead.
