Plato(Laws)and Aristotle (Metaph.) may have been more right than we imagine in supposing that some forms of civilisation were discovered and lost several times over. If we cannot argue that all barbarism is a degraded civilization, neither can we set any limits to the depth of degradation to which the human race may sink throughwar, disease, orisolation. Andifwearetodrawinferencesaboutthe originofmarriagefromthepracticeofbarbarousnations,weshouldalsoconsider the remoter analogy of the animals. Many birds and animals, especially thecarnivorous,haveonlyonemate,andtheloveandcareofoffspringwhich seemstobenaturalisinconsistentwiththeprimitivetheoryofmarriage. Ifwe gobacktoanimaginarystateinwhichmenwerealmostanimalsandthecompanionsofthem,wehaveasmuchrighttoarguefromwhatisanimaltowhatis humanasfromthebarbaroustothecivilizedman. Therecordofanimallifeon theglobeisfragmentary,–theconnectinglinksarewantingandcannotbesupplied;therecordofsociallifeisstillmorefragmentaryandprecarious. Evenif we admit that our first ancestors had no such institution as marriage, still the stagesbywhichmenpassedfromouterbarbarismtothecomparativecivilizationofChina,Assyria,andGreece,orevenoftheancientGermans,arewholly unknowntous.
 
 Such speculations are apt to be unsettling, because they seem to show that an institutionwhichwasthoughttobearevelationfromheaven,isonlythegrowth of history and experience. We ask what is the origin of marriage, and we are told that like the right of property, after many wars and contests, it has gradually arisen out of the selfishness of barbarians. We stand face to face with humannatureinitsprimitivenakedness. Wearecompelledtoaccept, notthe highest,butthelowestaccountoftheoriginofhumansociety. Butontheother hand we may truly say that every step in human progress has been in the same direction, and that in the course of ages the idea of marriage and of the familyhasbeenmoreandmoredefinedandconsecrated. ThecivilizedEastis immeasurably in advance of any savage tribes; the Greeks and Romans have improvedupontheEast;theChristiannationshavebeenstricterintheirviews of the marriage relation than any of the ancients. In this as in so many other things,insteadoflookingbackwithregrettothepast,weshouldlookforward with hope to the future. We must consecrate that which we believe to be the most holy, and that ’which is the most holy will be the most useful.’ There is more reason for maintaining the sacredness of the marriage tie, when we see thebenefitofit, thanwhenweonlyfeltavaguereligioushorrorabouttheviolation of it. But in all times of transition, when established beliefs are being undermined, thereis adangerthat inthepassage fromtheold tothenew we mayinsensiblyletgothemoralprinciple,findinganexcuseforlisteningtothe voiceofpassionintheuncertaintyofknowledge,orthefluctuationsofopinion.
 
 http://www.idph.net IDPH 143 Andtherearemanypersonsinourowndaywho,enlightenedbythestudyof anthropology,andfascinatedbywhatisnewandstrange,someusingthelanguageoffear,othersofhope,areinclinedtobelievethatatimewillcomewhen throughtheself-assertionofwomen,ortherebelliousspiritofchildren,bythe analysisofhumanrelations,orbytheforceofoutwardcircumstances,theties offamilylifemaybebrokenorgreatlyrelaxed.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
