’ And is not the reason of this that the several principles, whether in the stateorintheindividual,dotheirownbusiness?Andjusticeisthequalitywhichmakesjustmenandjuststates. Moreover,ourolddivisionoflabour,which requiredthatthereshouldbeonemanforoneuse,wasadreamoranticipation ofwhatwastofollow;andthatdreamhasnowbeenrealizedinjustice,which beginsbybindingtogetherthethreechordsofthesoul,andthenactsharmoniouslyineveryrelationoflife. Andinjustice,whichistheinsubordinationand disobedienceoftheinferiorelementsinthesoul,istheoppositeofjustice,and is inharmonious and unnatural, being to the soul what disease is to the body; forinthesoulaswellasinthebody,goodorbadactionsproducegoodorbad habits.Andvirtueisthehealthandbeautyandwell-beingofthesoul,andvice isthediseaseandweaknessanddeformityofthesoul.
 
 Again the old question returns upon us: Is justice or injustice the more profitable? The question has become ridiculous. For injustice, like mortal disease, makes life not worth having. Come up with me to the hill which overhangs the city and look down upon the single form of virtue, and the infinite forms ofvice,amongwhicharefourspecialones,characteristicbothofstatesandof individuals.Andthestatewhichcorrespondstothesingleformofvirtueisthat whichwehavebeendescribing,whereinreasonrulesunderoneoftwonames– monarchyandaristocracy. Thustherearefiveformsinall,bothofstatesandof souls...
 
 Inattemptingtoprovethatthesoulhasthreeseparatefaculties,Platotakesoccasion to discuss what makes difference of faculties. And the criterion which heproposesisdifferenceintheworkingofthefaculties. Thesamefacultycannot produce contradictory effects. But the path of early reasoners is beset by thornyentanglements,andhewillnotproceedastepwithoutfirstclearingthe ground. Thisleadshimintoatiresomedigression,whichisintendedtoexplain the nature of contradiction. First, the contradiction must be at the same time and in the same relation. Secondly, no extraneous word must be introduced intoeitherofthetermsinwhichthecontradictorypropositionisexpressed: for example,thirstisofdrink,notofwarmdrink.Heimplies,whathedoesnotsay, thatif,bytheadviceofreason,orbytheimpulseofanger,amanisrestrained fromdrinking,thisprovesthatthirst,ordesireunderwhichthirstisincluded, isdistinctfromangerandreason. Butsupposethatweallowtheterm’thirst’or ’desire’tobemodified,andsayan’angrythirst,’ora’revengefuldesire,’then the two spheres of desire and anger overlap and become confused. This case thereforehastobeexcluded. Andstillthereremainsanexceptiontotherulein theuseoftheterm’good,’whichisalwaysimpliedintheobjectofdesire.These arethediscussionsofanagebeforelogic;andanyonewhoisweariedbythem shouldrememberthattheyarenecessarytotheclearingupofideasinthefirst developmentofthehumanfaculties.
 
 ThepsychologyofPlatoextendsnofurtherthanthedivisionofthesoulintothe http://www.idph.net IDPH 55 rational, irascible, and concupiscent elements, which, as far as we know, was first made by him, and has been retained by Aristotle and succeeding ethical writers.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
