’ Theirfirstactwillbetosendawayintothecountry allthosewhoaremorethantenyearsofage,andtoproceedwiththosewhoare left...
 
 At the commencement of the sixth book, Plato anticipated his explanation of the relation of the philosopher to the world in an allegory, in this, as in other passages,followingtheorderwhichheprescribesineducation,andproceeding fromtheconcretetotheabstract. AtthecommencementofBookVII,underthe figureofacavehavinganopeningtowardsafireandawayupwardstothetrue light,hereturnstoviewthedivisionsofknowledge,exhibitingfamiliarly,asin apicture,theresultwhichhadbeenhardlywonbyagreateffortofthoughtin thepreviousdiscussion;atthesametimecastingaglanceonwardatthedialectical process, which is represented by the way leading from darkness to light.
 
 The shadows, the images, the reflection of the sun and stars in the water, the starsandsunthemselves,severallycorrespond,–thefirst,totherealmoffancy andpoetry,–thesecond, totheworldofsense,–thethird, totheabstractionsor universals of sense, of which the mathematical sciences furnish the type,–the fourth and last to the same abstractions, when seen in the unity of the idea, from which they derive a new meaning and power. The true dialectical processbeginswiththecontemplationoftherealstars,andnotmerereflectionsof them, andendswiththerecognitionofthesun, orideaofgood, astheparent notonlyoflightbutofwarmthandgrowth. Tothedivisionsofknowledgethe stagesofeducationpartlyanswer:–first,thereistheearlyeducationofchildhood and youth in the fancies of the poets, and in the laws and customs of the State;–thenthereisthetrainingofthebodytobeawarriorathlete,andagood servantofthemind;–andthirdly,afteranintervalfollowstheeducationoflater life,whichbeginswithmathematicsandproceedstophilosophyingeneral.
 
 ThereseemtobetwogreataimsinthephilosophyofPlato,–first,torealizeabstractions; secondly, to connect them. According to him, the true education is thatwhichdrawsmenfrombecomingtobeing,andtoacomprehensivesurvey of all being. He desires to develop in the human mind the faculty of seeing theuniversalinallthings; untilatlasttheparticularsofsensedropawayand theuniversalaloneremains. Hethenseekstocombinetheuniversalswhichhe hasdisengagedfromsense, not perceivingthatthecorrelationofthemhas no other basis but the common use of language. He never understands that abstractions, as Hegel says, are ’mere abstractions’–of use when employed in the arrangementoffacts,butaddingnothingtothesumofknowledgewhenpursuedapartfromthem,orwithreferencetoanimaginaryideaofgood. Stillthe exerciseofthefacultyofabstractionapartfromfactshasenlargedthemind,and played a great part in the education of the human race. Plato appreciated the valueofthisfaculty,andsawthatitmightbequickenedbythestudyofnumber andrelation. Allthingsinwhichthereisoppositionorproportionaresuggestiveofreflection. Themereimpressionofsenseevokesnopowerofthoughtor http://www.idph.net 86 IDPH ofmind,butwhensensibleobjectsasktobecomparedanddistinguished,then philosophy begins.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
