What do you mean?

I mean that they stay in the upper world, but this shouldn’t be allowed; they must come back down among the prisoners in the cave and share in their work and honors, whether they deserve them or not.

But isn’t that unfair? he said. Should we give them a worse life when they could have a better one?

You forgot again, my friend, I said, the lawmaker’s goal. He didn’t want any one group in the State to be happier than the rest; the happiness was for the whole State. He kept the citizens together by convincing them and by making it necessary, so they became helpers of the State, and so helpers of each other. He made them not to please themselves, but to be tools for keeping the State united.

True, he said, I forgot.

Look, Glaucon, there will be no unfairness in making our philosophers care about others. We’ll explain to them that in other States, people like them don’t have to share the hard work of politics. That’s fair because they grew up on their own and the government didn’t want them. Since they taught themselves, they don’t feel grateful for any education. But we have brought you into the world to be rulers of the community, kings of yourselves and others, and we have educated you better than others, so you can handle both duties. So, when your turn comes, you must go down to the general underground place and get used to seeing in the dark. When you do, you’ll see ten thousand times better than the people in the cave, and you’ll understand what the different shadows are and what they mean because you’ve seen what’s truly beautiful, fair, and good.

And so our State, which is also yours, will be real, not just a dream, and will be run in a way different from other States, where people fight over shadows and get distracted by power, which they think is great. The truth is, the best States are those where rulers don’t want to govern much and lead quietly, and the worst are those where rulers are eager to rule.

That’s very true, he replied.

And won’t our students, when they hear this, agree to take their turn in the hard work of running the State, especially since they get to spend most of their time together in the bright light above?
