I'm sure, I said, that anyone who doesn't understand what makes something beautiful and fair won’t be a good protector of those things. And I think no one who doesn't know what is good can truly understand it.

He said, that’s a smart guess of yours.

And if we only have protectors who really understand this, will our society be perfectly organized?

Of course, he answered. But I want you to tell me if you think this highest idea of good is knowledge, pleasure, or something else?

Yes, I said, I always knew that a picky guy like you wouldn’t just accept other people’s ideas about these things.

That’s true, Socrates, he said. But someone like you who has studied philosophy all their life shouldn’t just repeat what others say and never share their own thoughts.

Well, I asked, can anyone say for sure what they don’t really know?

No, he said, no one can be 100% sure about that; but they can say what they think as an opinion.

Don’t you know, I said, that all opinions are bad, and even the best ones are like being blind? You wouldn’t deny that people who have ideas without real understanding are like blind people feeling their way along a road?

Very true.

And do you want to see what is blind, twisted, and ugly, when others could show you brightness and beauty?

Still, I beg you, Socrates, said Glaucon, don’t stop just when you’re about to explain. If you can explain the good like you did with justice, self-control, and other virtues, we’ll be happy.

Yes, my friend, I said, I’ll be just as happy. But I’m afraid I might fail and make a fool of myself. No, friends, let’s not ask what the real nature of the good is right now, because that would be too hard for me. But I would like to talk about something related to the good, if you want to hear it—if not, I won’t.

By all means, he said, tell us about this related thing, and you’ll owe us for the story about the parent.

I really wish, I said, that I could tell you about the parent and you could understand it, not just the child. But for now, take the child’s story as interesting, and I’ll do my best not to give you wrong information, even though I don’t want to trick you.
