He wants to say that the time between two things can’t really be measured, and he makes up a formula to explain his idea. People who talked about justice like it was a cube, or said virtue was about measuring, didn’t mind thinking of the soul as a line or the pleasure of a bad ruler being very different from that of a good king by a number like 729. Even today, we sometimes use what Plato used as a serious idea but in a more symbolic way. Plato said, “It’s hard to figure out how much a tyrant loses, except maybe like this.” So we could say that even though a good person’s life isn’t really like a bad person’s, you might measure the difference by saying one minute of a good life is worth an hour of a bad one, or just say there’s an endless difference. But that’s not the same as saying, in simple words, “They are a thousand miles apart.” Plato uses numbers seriously to explain his thoughts, and he even connects the numbers to shapes, like how some people today think something is true just because it’s put into a complicated form. When Plato talks about the number 729 relating to human life, he probably means that one year of a tyrant’s life equals 12 hours of a king’s life.

The simple idea that you can compare two similar shapes by comparing the cubes of their sides is what this fancy idea is based on. It’s a bit tricky to explain how the number 729 comes up; the oligarch is three steps away from the king and aristocrat, and the tyrant is three steps away from the oligarch. But we have to set these steps as sides of a square and count the oligarch twice, making the total 9 instead of 5. Then, squaring 9 is just a small step toward getting the cube.

Near the end of the Republic, Plato seems more sure that his ideas are just ideas, not real things. At the end of Book 9, the perfect form in heaven replaces the city of philosophers on earth. The vision he made real now seems far away. But this far-off kingdom is also what rules a person’s life. (“Don’t say, ‘Here it is,’ or ‘There it is,’ because the kingdom of God is inside you.”) This idea gets ready for the talk about life after death in the next Book. But the future life is still present now; the perfect politics should happen inside each person.

In Book 10, I liked many parts about how our State is organized, but I liked best the rules about poetry. The idea of dividing the soul helps explain why we don’t accept imitation. I’ll tell you a secret: all poetry messes with your understanding, unless the listener has enough knowledge to fix the mistakes.
