Come on, let’s try to talk calmly with someone who is unfair but not doing it on purpose. We might say to him, “Hey, what do you think is noble and what is not? Isn’t the noble part of a person the one that controls the wild, animal side? And the not noble part is when the animal side controls the person?” He can’t really say no—can he?

If he cares about what I think.

If he agrees so far, we can ask another question: “How would it help a person if he got gold and silver, but only if he made the best part of himself serve the worst part? Who would think a person who sold his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially to cruel people, would really win, no matter how much money he got? And wouldn’t anyone say he’s a miserable coward who sells his own godlike self to the worst and most hated things? Eriphyle took a necklace as payment for her husband’s death, but this guy is taking a bribe to cause something even worse.” Yes, said Glaucon, it’s much worse—I’ll speak for him.

Hasn’t the uncontrolled person always been blamed because the huge, wild monster inside him is let loose too much?

Definitely.

And don’t people get blamed for pride and bad temper when the lion and snake parts inside them get too strong?

Yes.

And aren’t luxury and comfort blamed because they make this wild part lazy and weak, turning a brave person into a coward?

Very true.

And isn’t a person called fake and mean who lets the wild side win and, just for money—which he never has enough of—trains himself when young to be low and weak, changing from a lion into a monkey?

True, he said.

And why are dirty jobs and manual work looked down on? Only because they show that the higher, better part of a person is weak; the person can’t control the wild parts inside and has to please them, which is what he spends most of his time doing.

That seems to be the reason.

So, wanting to put someone under the best kind of rule, we say he should be controlled by his best part, where the Divine lives; not, like Thrasymachus thought, to hurt the person, but because everyone is better off being ruled by the divine wisdom inside them. And if that’s not possible, then by some outside authority, so that we can all live together as much as possible as friends and equals.
