Andthefreedomisofthebad,andtheslaveryofthegood;and this applies to the man as well as to the State; for his soul is full of meanness and slavery, and the better part is enslaved to the worse. He cannot do what hewould,andhismindisfullofconfusion;heistheveryreverseofafreeman.
 
 The State will be poor and full of misery and sorrow; and the man’s soul will alsobepoorandfullofsorrows,andhewillbethemostmiserableofmen. No, not the most miserable, for there is yet a more miserable. ’Who is that?’ The tyrannicalmanwhohasthemisfortunealsotobecomeapublictyrant. ’There I suspect that you are right.’ Say rather, ’I am sure;’ conjecture is out of place inanenquiryofthisnature. Heislikeawealthyownerofslaves, onlyhehas moreofthemthananyprivateindividual. Youwillsay,’Theownersofslaves are not generally in any fear of them.’ But why? Because the whole city is in a league which protects the individual. Suppose however that one of these ownersandhishouseholdiscarriedoffbyagodintoawilderness,wherethere arenofreementohelphim–willhenotbeinanagonyofterror?–willhenotbe compelled to flatter his slaves and to promise them many things sore against his will? And suppose the same god who carried him off were to surround him with neighbours who declare that no man ought to have slaves, and that the owners of them should be punished with death. ’Still worse and worse!
 
 He will be in the midst of his enemies.’ And is not our tyrant such a captive soul,whoistormentedbyaswarmofpassionswhichhecannotindulge;living indoorsalwayslikeawoman,andjealousofthosewhocangooutandseethe world?
 
 Having so many evils, will not the most miserable of men be still more miserable in a public station? Master of others when he is not master of himself; likeasickmanwhoiscompelledtobeanathlete;themeanestofslavesandthe mostabjectofflatterers;wantingallthings,andneverabletosatisfyhisdesires; always in fear and distraction, like the State of which he is the representative.
 
 His jealous, hateful, faithless temper grows worse with command; he is more andmorefaithless,envious,unrighteous,–themostwretchedofmen,amisery tohimselfandtoothers. Andsoletushaveafinaltrialandproclamation;need wehireaherald, orshallIproclaimtheresult? ’Madetheproclamationyourself.’ ThesonofAriston(thebest)isofopinionthatthebestandjustestofmen isalsothehappiest,andthatthisishewhoisthemostroyalmasterofhimself; and that the unjust man is he who is the greatest tyrant of himself and of his State. AndIaddfurther–’seenorunseenbygodsormen.’ Thisisourfirstproof. Thesecondisderivedfromthethreekindsofpleasure, which answer to the three elements of the soul–reason, passion, desire; under whichlastiscomprehendedavariceaswellassensualappetite, whilepassion http://www.idph.net 108 IDPH includes ambition, party-feeling, love of reputation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
