theydonotseethatthepoetsareimitators, andthattheircreations are only imitations. ’Very true.’ But if a person could create as well as imitate,hewouldratherleavesomepermanentworkandnotanimitationonly; he would rather be the receiver than the giver of praise? ’Yes, for then he would havemorehonourandadvantage.’ Let us now interrogate Homer and the poets. Friend Homer, say I to him, I am not going to ask you about medicine, or any art to which your poems incidentally refer, but about their main subjects–war, military tactics, politics. If youareonlytwiceandnotthriceremovedfromthetruth–notanimitatororan image-maker,pleasetoinformuswhatgoodyouhaveeverdonetomankind?
 
 Isthereanycitywhichprofessestohavereceivedlawsfromyou,asSicilyand ItalyhavefromCharondas,SpartafromLycurgus,AthensfromSolon? Orwas anywarevercarriedonbyyourcounsels?orisanyinventionattributedtoyou, asthereistoThalesandAnacharsis? OristhereanyHomericwayoflife,such asthePythagoreanwas,inwhichyouinstructedmen,andwhichiscalledafter you? ’No,indeed;andCreophylus(Flesh-child)wasevenmoreunfortunatein hisbreedingthanhewasinhisname,if,astraditionsays,Homerinhislifetime was allowed by him and his other friends to starve.’ Yes, but could this ever have happened if Homer had really been the educator of Hellas? Would he nothavehadmanydevotedfollowers? IfProtagorasandProdicuscanpersuadetheircontemporariesthatnoonecanmanagehouseorStatewithoutthem, is it likely that Homer and Hesiod would have been allowed to go about as beggars–Imeaniftheyhadreallybeenabletodotheworldanygood?–would notmenhavecompelledthemtostaywheretheywere,orhavefollowedthem aboutinordertogeteducation? Buttheydidnot; andthereforewemayinfer thatHomerandallthepoetsareonlyimitators,whodobutimitatetheappearancesofthings. Forasapainterbyaknowledgeoffigureandcolourcanpaint a cobbler without any practice in cobbling, so the poet can delineate any art in the colours of language, and give harmony and rhythm to the cobbler and also to the general; and you know how mere narration, when deprived of the ornamentsofmetre,islikeafacewhichhaslostthebeautyofyouthandnever had any other. Once more, the imitator has no knowledge of reality, but only of appearance. The painter paints, and the artificer makes a bridle and reins, but neither understands the use of them–the knowledge of this is confined to the horseman; and so of other things. Thus we have three arts: one of use, anotherofinvention,athirdofimitation;andtheuserfurnishestheruletothe twoothers. Theflute-playerwillknowthegoodandbadflute,andthemaker willputfaithinhim;buttheimitatorwillneitherknownorhavefaith–neither science nor true opinion can be ascribed to him. Imitation, then, is devoid of knowledge,beingonlyakindofplayorsport,andthetragicandepicpoetsare imitatorsinthehighestdegree.
 
 And now let us enquire, what is the faculty in man which answers to imitatihttp://www.idph.net IDPH 115 on.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
