Motion, I said, has many forms, and not one only; two of them are obvious enough even to wits no better than ours; and there are others, as I imagine, whichmaybelefttowiserpersons.
 
 Butwherearethetwo?
 
 Thereisasecond,Isaid,whichisthecounterpartoftheonealreadynamed.
 
 Andwhatmaythatbe?
 
 The second, I said, would seem relatively to the ears to be what the first is to theeyes; forIconceivethatastheeyesaredesignedtolookupatthestars,so are the ears to hear harmonious motions; and these are sister sciences–as the Pythagoreanssay,andwe,Glaucon,agreewiththem?
 
 Yes,hereplied.
 
 But this, I said, is a laborious study, and therefore we had better go and learn ofthem;andtheywilltelluswhetherthereareanyotherapplicationsofthese sciences. Atthesametime,wemustnotlosesightofourownhigherobject.
 
 Whatisthat?
 
 Thereisaperfectionwhichallknowledgeoughttoreach,andwhichourpupils ought also to attain, and not to fall short of, as I was saying that they did in astronomy. For in the science of harmony, as you probably know, the same thinghappens. Theteachersofharmonycomparethesoundsandconsonances whichareheardonly,andtheirlabour,likethatoftheastronomers,isinvain.
 
 Yes, by heaven! he said; and ’tis as good as a play to hear them talking about theircondensednotes,astheycallthem; theyputtheirearsclosealongsideof the strings like persons catching a sound from their neighbour’s wall–one set of them declaring that they distinguish an intermediate note and have found theleastintervalwhichshouldbetheunitofmeasurement;theothersinsisting that the two sounds have passed into the same–either party setting their ears beforetheirunderstanding.
 
 You mean, I said, those gentlemen who tease and torture the strings and rack themonthepegsoftheinstrument: Imightcarryonthemetaphorandspeak aftertheirmanneroftheblowswhichtheplectrumgives,andmakeaccusations against the strings, both of backwardness and forwardness to sound; but this wouldbetedious,andthereforeIwillonlysaythatthesearenotthemen,and that I am referring to the Pythagoreans, of whom I was just now proposing toenquireaboutharmony. Fortheytooareinerror,liketheastronomers;they investigatethenumbersoftheharmonieswhichareheard,buttheyneverattain to problems–that is to say, they never reach the natural harmonies of number, http://www.idph.net IDPH 391 orreflectwhysomenumbersareharmoniousandothersnot.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
