Cephalus was happy when Socrates came to visit him. He loved poetry from the past and felt good about living a good life. He was glad he didn’t give in to young desires. He liked talking with people, cared about others, didn’t care much about money, and talked a lot. These things show what kind of person he was.

He wasn’t the type of person who only thought about making money. But he did say that having money can help people avoid cheating or lying. Socrates treated him with respect because Socrates loved talking with everyone. Socrates was on a mission from the Oracle to ask questions to all kinds of people, young and old. Cephalus was a good person to talk to about justice because his life seemed fair and honest.

Cephalus talked about old age as something okay and easy to handle. This was how Greeks usually felt, which is different from how Cicero talked about old age later. Plato described old age with just a few words but in a strong way. Cicero said Cephalus wouldn’t fit in the later talks because he wouldn’t understand or join in properly.

Cephalus’s son, Polemarchus, was young and quick to act. He even tried to keep Socrates from leaving at the start and was serious about talking about women and children. Like his dad, Polemarchus had a simple view of right and wrong and followed rules more than deep ideas. He quoted a poet named Simonides, just like his dad quoted Pindar. But after that, he didn’t have much to say. Socrates had to ask questions to get any answers from him. Polemarchus hadn’t yet learned from the Sophists like Glaucon and Adeimantus and didn’t know he needed to argue against them. He wasn’t good at arguing and got confused by Socrates, sometimes not even knowing what he was saying. He even agreed that justice is like a thief and that virtues are connected to the heart.

We also know from his brother Lysias that Polemarchus was killed by the Thirty Tyrants, but this passage doesn’t talk about that. It also doesn’t say that Cephalus and his family came from Syracuse and moved from Thurii to Athens.

Thrasymachus, called the ‘Chalcedonian giant,’ was a Sophist, which means he was a certain kind of teacher or thinker Plato didn’t like. We first heard about him in another work called the Phaedrus. Thrasymachus was full of himself and loud. He wouldn’t talk unless he got paid, liked making speeches, and hoped to avoid Socrates by talking a lot. But he wasn’t good at arguing and didn’t realize that Socrates was about to shut him down.
