First, I said—and this is the first thing you have to believe—that both the just and unjust are truly known by the gods.

Okay.

And if the gods know both, one must be their friend and the other their enemy, right?

True.

And the friend of the gods probably gets the best of everything from them, except for some bad stuff that happens because of past mistakes.

Sure.

So, this must be our idea of a just person: even when they are poor, sick, or going through hard times, everything will eventually work out for their good in life and death. The gods care for anyone who wants to be just and like God, as much as a person can be, by trying to be good.

Yes, he said; if someone is like God, the gods won’t ignore them.

And the unjust person must be the opposite, right?

Definitely.

So, these are the rewards the gods give to the just?

That’s what I believe.

And what do the unjust get from people? Look at the real situation: the clever unjust are like runners who run fast from the start to the finish, but can’t run back. They start strong but end up looking silly, sneaking away without a prize or crown. But the true runner finishes and wins the prize and crown. This is like the just person; those who keep going through all parts of life get a good reputation and the prize people give.

True.

Now let me say again the good things you said about the lucky unjust. I’ll say the same things about the just. As they get older, they can become leaders in their city if they want; they marry who they like and give their daughters in marriage as they wish. Everything you said about the unjust, I now say about the just.

But about the unjust, I say most of them, even if they escape trouble when young, are found out in the end and look foolish by the time they finish their lives. When they get old and miserable, both strangers and citizens mock them. They get beaten and suffer terrible punishments like you said, things too horrible to even hear about; their bodies are tortured and their eyes destroyed.
