Compared to people from other places, our citizens will be like Olympic winners, and they will get even better rewards – they and their children will have better care during life and an honorable burial after death. The happiness of the individual isn’t sacrificed for the State’s happiness; our Olympic winner isn’t turned into a simple worker, but he is happier than any worker. At the same time, if any proud young person starts to think the State belongs only to him, he must be reminded that “half is better than the whole.” I would definitely tell him to stay where he is if he has the promise of such a good life.

But is such a community really possible? Just like with animals, it can be possible among people too; and if it is, how? There is no problem when it comes to war; sharing everything fits well with military service. Parents will take their kids to watch a battle, just like how boys learn about horses by watching them. For parents and animals alike, seeing their young ones will inspire bravery. Young warriors must learn, but they shouldn’t rush into danger, although some risk is okay if the reward is big. Young fighters should be looked after by experienced soldiers, and they should have fast, trained horses to help them escape if needed.

One of the first things to teach a young person is how to ride.

Cowards and those who run away will be lowered to the class of farmers; gentlemen who get captured can be handed over to the enemy. But what about the hero? First, all the young soldiers will crown him; second, he will be welcomed warmly; and third, do you think there is any harm in giving him a kiss?

We have already decided that he will have more wives than others so he can have many children. At a feast, he will get more food; Homer gives us the example of honoring brave men with “long meals,” which is a good way to show respect because meat makes you strong. Fill the bowl and give the best seats and meat to the brave – may it help them! And anyone who dies in battle will immediately be called part of the golden race, and we believe they will become guardian angels like Hesiod said. They will be worshipped after death as the oracle commands; and not just them, but all others who help the State and die in any way will get the same honors.

The next question is, how should we treat our enemies? Should Greeks be made slaves? No, because there is too much risk that the whole race could fall under the control of barbarians. Or should the dead be robbed? Definitely not, because that kind of thing is an excuse for cowardice and has ruined many armies. It’s mean and unkind to make an enemy out of a dead body, when the soul has already left – like a dog that can’t reach the plants it wants and instead fights with the stones thrown at it.
