Again, the arms of Hellenes should not be offered in the temples of the Gods; they are pollution because they come from brothers fighting each other. For similar reasons, there should be limits to destroying Hellenic land – houses shouldn’t be burned, and yearly crops shouldn’t be stolen. There are two kinds of war: civil and foreign. The first is called ‘discord,’ and the second is ‘war.’ War between Hellenes is really civil war – a family fight, which is unpatriotic and unnatural. It should be handled with the goal of making peace, like those who punish but don’t completely enslave. War is not against a whole nation of friendly men, women, and children, but only against a few guilty people. When they are punished, peace will come back.

That is how Hellenes should fight each other – and against barbarians, just as they fight now.

“But, my dear Socrates, you are forgetting the main question: is such a State possible? I agree with you about how great it would be to be one family – fathers, brothers, mothers, daughters going to war together; but I want to know if this perfect State can really exist.” You are too harsh.

I barely escaped the first and second waves of your questions, and now you want to drown me with a third. When you see the huge wave coming, I hope you will feel sorry for me. “Not at all.” Well, then, we were led to create our ideal State while searching for justice, and the just person matches the just State. Is this ideal any worse just because it can’t be done? Would a picture of a perfectly beautiful man be any less good because no such man has ever lived? Can reality ever match an idea? Nature won’t let words become fully real; but if I try to make the ideal State real, at least a little, I think we can get closer to the perfect State by making one or two serious changes to how States are now. I want to reduce them to just one big change – the great wave, as I call it. Until kings are philosophers, or philosophers are kings, cities will never stop being bad; no, the human race won’t either; and our perfect State will never come to be. I know this is hard to hear, and few will accept it. “Socrates, the whole world will take off their coats and rush at you with sticks and stones, so I suggest you prepare a reply.” You got me into trouble, I said. “And I was right,” he said. “But I will support you as a kind of do-nothing, well-meaning friend.” With a helper like that, I will try my best to defend my ideas. First, I need to explain who I mean and what kind of people are to be philosophers and rulers. Since you like pleasure, you won’t forget how careless lovers are in what they love; they love everyone and turn flaws into beauties. The snub-nosed youth is said to have charm; another’s hooked nose looks royal; the ones without features are perfect; the dark-skinned are manly, the fair-skinned are angels; the sickly get a new loving name made just for them: “honey-pale.”
