Quitetrue,hesaid.
 
 But with the rich man this is otherwise; of him we do not say that he has any speciallyappointedworkwhichhemustperform,ifhewouldlive.
 
 Heisgenerallysupposedtohavenothingtodo.
 
 ThenyouneverheardofthesayingofPhocylides,thatassoonasamanhasa livelihoodheshouldpractisevirtue?
 
 Nay,hesaid,Ithinkthathehadbetterbeginsomewhatsooner.
 
 Letusnothaveadisputewithhimaboutthis,Isaid;butratheraskourselves: Is the practice of virtue obligatory on the rich man, or can he live without it?
 
 Andifobligatoryonhim, thenletusraiseafurtherquestion, whetherthisdieting of disorders, which is an impediment to the application of the mind in carpenteringandthemechanicalarts,doesnotequallystandinthewayofthe sentimentofPhocylides?
 
 Ofthat,hereplied,therecanbenodoubt;suchexcessivecareofthebody,when carriedbeyondtherulesofgymnastic,ismostinimicaltothepracticeofvirtue.
 
 Yes,indeed,Ireplied,andequallyincompatiblewiththemanagementofahouse, anarmy, oranofficeofstate; and, whatismostimportantofall, irreconcileable with any kind of study or thought or self-reflection–there is a constant suspicion that headache and giddiness are to be ascribed to philosophy, and hence all practising or making trial of virtue in the higher sense is absolutely stopped;foramanisalwaysfancyingthatheisbeingmadeill,andisinconstantanxietyaboutthestateofhisbody.
 
 Yes,likelyenough.
 
 And therefore our politic Asclepius may be supposed to have exhibited the power of his art only to persons who, being generally of healthy constitution andhabitsoflife,hadadefiniteailment;suchasthesehecuredbypurgesand operations, and bade them live as usual, herein consulting the interests of the State;butbodieswhichdiseasehadpenetratedthroughandthroughhewould nothaveattemptedtocurebygradualprocessesofevacuationandinfusion:he did not want to lengthen out good-for-nothing lives, or to have weak fathers begetting weaker sons; –if a man was not able to live in the ordinary way he hadnobusinesstocurehim;forsuchacurewouldhavebeenofnouseeither tohimself,ortotheState.
 
 Then,hesaid,youregardAsclepiusasastatesman.
 
 Clearly;andhischaracterisfurtherillustratedbyhissons. Notethattheywere heroesinthedaysofoldandpractisedthemedicinesofwhichIamspeakingat http://www.idph.net 264 IDPH thesiegeofTroy:Youwillrememberhow,whenPandaruswoundedMenelaus, they ’Suckedthebloodoutofthewound,andsprinkledsoothingremedies,’ but they never prescribed what the patient was afterwards to eat or drink in the case of Menelaus, any more than in the case of Eurypylus; the remedies, astheyconceived,wereenoughtohealanymanwhobeforehewaswounded washealthyandregularinhishabits;andeventhoughhedidhappentodrink apossetofPramnianwine,hemightgetwellallthesame.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
