Suchisthereceivedaccount,Socrates, ofthenatureandoriginofjustice.
 
 Nowthatthosewhopractisejusticedosoinvoluntarilyandbecausetheyhave not the power to be unjust will best appear if we imagine something of this kind: havinggivenbothtothejustandtheunjustpowertodowhattheywill, let us watch and see whither desire will lead them; then we shall discover in the very act the just and unjust man to be proceeding along the same road, followingtheirinterest, whichallnaturesdeemtobetheirgood, andareonly diverted into the path of justice by the force of law. The liberty which we are supposingmaybemostcompletelygiventothemintheformofsuchapower asissaidtohavebeenpossessedbyGyges,theancestorofCroesustheLydian.
 
 According to the tradition, Gyges was a shepherd in the service of the king of Lydia; there was a great storm, and an earthquake made an opening in the earth at the place where he was feeding his flock. Amazed at the sight, he descendedintotheopening,where,amongothermarvels,hebeheldahollow brazen horse, having doors, at which he stooping and looking in saw a dead bodyofstature,asappearedtohim,morethanhuman,andhavingnothingon butagoldring;thishetookfromthefingerofthedeadandreascended. Now the shepherds met together, according to custom, that they might send their monthlyreportabouttheflockstotheking;intotheirassemblyhecamehaving the ring on his finger, and as he was sitting among them he chanced to turn thecolletoftheringinsidehishand,wheninstantlyhebecameinvisibletothe rest of the company and they began to speak of him as if he were no longer present. Hewasastonishedatthis, andagaintouchingtheringheturnedthe colletoutwardsandreappeared;hemadeseveraltrialsofthering,andalways with the same result–when he turned the collet inwards he became invisible, whenoutwardshereappeared.Whereuponhecontrivedtobechosenoneofthe messengerswhoweresenttothecourt;whereassoonashearrivedheseduced thequeen,andwithherhelpconspiredagainstthekingandslewhim,andtook thekingdom. Supposenowthatthereweretwosuchmagicrings,andthejust putononeofthemandtheunjusttheother; nomancanbeimaginedtobeof such an iron nature that he would stand fast in justice. No man would keep his hands off what was not his own when he could safely take what he liked out of the market, or go into houses and lie with any one at his pleasure, or kill or release from prison whom he would, and in all respects be like a God amongmen. Thentheactionsofthejustwouldbeastheactionsoftheunjust; theywouldbothcomeatlasttothesamepoint. Andthiswemaytrulyaffirm to be a great proof that a man is just, not willingly or because he thinks that justiceisanygoodtohimindividually, butofnecessity, forwhereveranyone thinks that he can safely be unjust, there he is unjust. For all men believe in their hearts that injustice is far more profitable to the individual than justice, andhewhoarguesasIhavebeensupposing,willsaythattheyareright. Ifyou http://www.idph.net 214 IDPH could imagine any one obtaining this power of becoming invisible, and never doinganywrongortouchingwhatwasanother’s,hewouldbethoughtbythe lookers-ontobeamostwretchedidiot,althoughtheywouldpraisehimtoone another’s faces, and keep up appearances with one another from a fear that theytoomightsufferinjustice.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
