Freedom, I replied; which, as they tell you in a democracy, is the glory of the State–andthatthereforeinademocracyalonewillthefreemanofnaturedeign todwell.
 
 Yes;thesayingisineverybody’smouth.
 
 Iwasgoingtoobserve,thattheinsatiabledesireofthisandtheneglectofother things introduces the change in democracy, which occasions a demand for tyranny.
 
 Howso?
 
 When a democracy which is thirsting for freedom has evil cup-bearers presiding over the feast, and has drunk too deeply of the strong wine of freedom, then,unlessherrulersareveryamenableandgiveaplentifuldraught,shecalls themtoaccountandpunishesthem,andsaysthattheyarecursedoligarchs.
 
 Yes,hereplied,averycommonoccurrence.
 
 Yes, I said; and loyal citizens are insultingly termed by her slaves who hug their chains and men of naught; she would have subjects who are like rulers, andrulerswhoarelikesubjects: thesearemenafterherownheart,whomshe praisesandhonoursbothinprivateandpublic.Now,insuchaState,canliberty haveanylimit?
 
 Certainlynot.
 
 By degrees the anarchy finds a way into private houses, and ends by getting amongtheanimalsandinfectingthem.
 
 Howdoyoumean?
 
 Imeanthatthefathergrowsaccustomedtodescendtothelevelofhissonsand to fear them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverenceforeitherofhisparents;andthisishisfreedom,andthemeticisequal withthecitizenandthecitizenwiththemetic,andthestrangerisquiteasgood aseither.
 
 Yes,hesaid,thatistheway.
 
 And these are not the only evils, I said–there are several lesser ones: In such a state of society the master fears and flatters his scholars, and the scholars despise their masters and tutors; young and old are all alike; and the young man is on a level with the old, and is ready to compete with him in word or deed; and old men condescend to the young and are full of pleasantry and gaiety;theyarelothtobethoughtmoroseandauthoritative,andthereforethey adoptthemannersoftheyoung.
 
 http://www.idph.net IDPH 423 Quitetrue,hesaid.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
