Great men and women usually didn’t have great parents. Nothing about where they came from or their family history can explain how they became special. Among English poets from the past few centuries, almost none had famous descendants. Nature keeps its secrets well, and it’s silly to think that we could create a Shakespeare or Milton just by arranging who marries whom, like Plato suggested. Even if we could breed people who never give up or who are brave like Spartans, would that really make the world better? Some of the greatest people were actually physically weak. For example, Tyrtaeus, Aesop, or Newton wouldn’t have survived in Sparta. And some of the strongest and most attractive people have been the worst in character. Humans didn’t slowly get better by just mixing strong and good-looking people, as Plato thought, but by changing from wild and careless ways to more caring and civilized ways of living.

Most people agree that we inherit mental and physical traits from our parents, grandparents, and even from our race or the world we’re born into. It’s common to say someone looks or acts like their father or uncle. Older people often notice that young people remind them of ancestors from long ago, saying “nature sometimes skips a generation.” If we knew more about our family history, these similarities would probably stand out even more. But even though these things are true, they are only a small part of who we are. The idea of heredity might make us feel like we don’t control our own lives, but that’s just a scary idea, not the truth. What we get from our ancestors is only a small part of what we really are or can become. Knowing that problems like alcoholism or mental illness run in a family can actually help prevent them in the future. Parents who understand their own weaknesses will watch out for these problems in their kids. Life can be focused on stopping or fixing these issues. Signs of diseases can get weaker or disappear, and bad habits or crimes can be stopped.

So, heredity can change from being a curse into a blessing. We know that where we come from and who we are have some effects on us. But even with these facts or limits, we still have the power to create our own lives through the strength of our human will.
