In the last argument we trace the germ of the Aristotelian doctrine of an end and a virtue directed towardstheend,whichagainissuggestedbythearts. Thefinalreconcilement of justice and happiness and the identity of the individual and the State are also intimated. Socrates reassumes the character of a ’know-nothing;’ at the sametimeheappearstobenotwhollysatisfiedwiththemannerinwhichthe argument has been conducted. Nothing is concluded; but the tendency of the dialecticalprocess,hereasalways,istoenlargeourconceptionofideas,andto widentheirapplicationtohumanlife.
 
 BOOK II. Thrasymachus is pacified, but the intrepid Glaucon insists on continuing the argument. He is not satisfied with the indirect manner in which, at theendofthelastbook,Socrateshaddisposedofthequestion’Whetherthejust or the unjust is the happier.’ He begins by dividing goods into three classes:– first, goods desirable in themselves; secondly, goods desirable in themselves and for their results; thirdly, goods desirable for their results only. He then asksSocratesinwhichofthethreeclasseshewouldplacejustice. Inthesecond class,repliesSocrates,amonggoodsdesirableforthemselvesandalsofortheir results. ’Thentheworldingeneralareofanothermind,fortheysaythatjustice belongstothetroublesomeclassofgoodswhicharedesirablefortheirresults only. Socrates answers that this is the doctrine of Thrasymachus which he rejects. Glaucon thinks that Thrasymachus was too ready to listen to the voice of the charmer, and proposes to consider the nature of justice and injustice in themselvesandapartfromtheresultsandrewardsofthemwhichtheworldis alwaysdinninginhisears. Hewillfirstofallspeakofthenatureandoriginof justice; secondly, of the manner in which men view justice as a necessity and notagood;andthirdly,hewillprovethereasonablenessofthisview.
 
 ’To do injustice is said to be a good; to suffer injustice an evil. As the evil is discoveredbyexperiencetobegreaterthanthegood,thesufferers,whocannot alsobedoers,makeacompactthattheywillhaveneither,andthiscompactor meaniscalledjustice,butisreallytheimpossibilityofdoinginjustice. Noone wouldobservesuchacompactifhewerenotobliged. Letussupposethatthe justandunjusthavetworings,likethatofGygesinthewell-knownstory,which maketheminvisible,andthennodifferencewillappearinthem,foreveryone willdoevilifhecan. Andhewhoabstainswillberegardedbytheworldasa foolforhispains. Menmaypraisehiminpublicoutoffearforthemselves,but theywilllaughathimintheirhearts(Cp. Gorgias.) ’Andnowletusframeanidealofthejustandunjust. Imaginetheunjustman to be master of his craft, seldom making mistakes and easily correcting them; havinggiftsofmoney,speech,strength–thegreatestvillainbearingthehighest character: andathis sideletus placethejust inhisnobleness andsimplicity– being, not seeming–without name or reward– clothed in his justice only–the best of men who is thought to be the worst, and let him die as he has lived. I http://www.idph.net 24 IDPH mightadd(butIwouldratherputtherestintothemouthofthepanegyristsof injustice–theywilltellyou)thatthejustmanwillbescourged,racked,bound, willhavehiseyesputout, andwillatlastbecrucified(literallyimpaled)–and all this because he ought to have preferred seeming to being.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
