Either’thenativehueofresolutionissickliedo’erwiththepalecast of thought,’ and at the moment when action above all things is required he is undecided,orgeneralprinciplesareenunciatedbyhiminordertocoversome change of policy; or his ignorance of the world has made him more easily fall apreytotheartsofothers;orinsomecaseshehasbeenconvertedintoacourtier, who enjoys the luxury of holding liberal opinions, but was never known to perform a liberal action. No wonder that mankind have been in the habit of calling statesmen of this class pedants, sophisters, doctrinaires, visionaries.
 
 For, as we may be allowed to say, a little parodying the words of Plato, ’they have seen bad imitations of the philosopher-statesman.’ But a man in whom thepowerofthoughtandactionareperfectlybalanced,equaltothepresent,reachingforwardtothefuture,’suchaone,’rulinginaconstitutionalstate,’they haveneverseen.’ Butasthephilosopherisapttofailintheroutineofpoliticallife,sotheordinary statesmanisalsoapttofailinextraordinarycrises. Whenthefaceoftheworld isbeginningtoalter,andthunderisheardinthedistance,heisstillguidedby his old maxims, and is the slave of his inveterate party prejudices; he cannot perceive the signs of the times; instead of looking forward he looks back; he learnsnothingandforgetsnothing;with’wisesawsandmoderninstances’he would stem the rising tide of revolution. He lives more and more within the circle of his own party, as the world without him becomes stronger. This seemstobethereasonwhytheoldorderofthingsmakessopoorafigurewhen confronted with the new, why churches can never reform, why most political changes are made blindly and convulsively. The great crises in the history of nationshaveoftenbeenmetbyanecclesiasticalpositiveness, andamoreobstinate reassertion of principles which have lost their hold upon a nation. The fixedideasofareactionarystatesmanmaybecomparedtomadness;theygrow uponhim,andhebecomespossessedbythem;nojudgementofothersisever admittedbyhimtobeweighedinthebalanceagainsthisown.
 
 (d) Plato, labouring under what, to modern readers, appears to have been a confusion of ideas, assimilates the state to the individual, and fails to distinguish Ethics from Politics. He thinks that to be most of a state which is most likeoneman,andinwhichthecitizenshavethegreatestuniformityofcharacter. He does not see that the analogy is partly fallacious, and that the will or characterofastateornationisreallythebalanceorratherthesurplusofindividual wills, which are limited by the condition of having to act in common.
 
 Themovementofabodyofmencanneverhavethepliancyorfacilityofasingleman; thefreedomoftheindividual, whichisalwayslimited, becomesstill morestraitenedwhentransferredtoanation. Thepowersofactionandfeeling are necessarily weaker and more balanced when they are diffused through a community;whencearisestheoftendiscussedquestion,’Cananation,likean individual,haveaconscience?’ Wehesitatetosaythatthecharactersofnations http://www.idph.net 152 IDPH arenothingmorethanthesumofthecharactersoftheindividualswhocomposethem;becausetheremaybetendenciesinindividualswhichreactuponone another.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
