Plato had a different idea about marriage that didn’t really fit with what usually happens. In his perfect society, all the children are orphans. He didn’t think about the fact that most of these children, based on what we know, would probably die.

Kids need to grow up in families. There’s a special connection between a mother and her child that other women or nurses can’t replace. If Plato’s system was as harsh as some foundling hospitals in Paris or Dublin, more than nine out of ten children would have died. There wouldn’t be a need to get rid of the weaker kids because they would have died on their own.

Nature really fights against breaking up families.

Plato took what he heard about Sparta and used it the wrong way for his ideal society. He saw that Spartan men and women were stronger and better looking than other Greeks, and he thought this was because of their marriage laws. He didn’t realize that Spartans wanted strong kids so badly because of their lifestyle, self-control, and training—not just marriage rules. Sparta was powerful not because its morals were relaxed, but because it had a political system stronger than any other Greek state.

But Sparta didn’t make the best Greeks. It didn’t have the great thinkers, artists, or leaders like Athens had. The Spartans didn’t have people like Themistocles, Pericles, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Socrates, or Plato himself. They didn’t let individuals stand out above the state, and their laws never changed. But where does progress come from if not from special people who change the world? Maybe people talk too much about individuality today, but it’s still worse to have a system that tries to stop unique talents and personalities from growing.

Even though Plato’s ideas are wrong, we have to admit that no religion or society has figured out this really hard problem. Plato looked at it from one side, and we usually ignore that side. Population is the hardest thing to manage in politics and society. In big cities, one big problem for helping poor people is that they don’t plan their marriages well. It seems like a small issue, but it causes a lot of problems. Some countries, like India or Ireland, show us that fixing marriage problems could be the key to making the whole community happier.

There are too many people living in small areas, or people get married too young and have weak or sick babies. Because of how they live, people become thin and unhealthy and pass that on to their kids.
