First, we may observe that the relations of the sexes supposed by him arethereverseoflicentious: heseemsrathertoaimatanimpossiblestrictness.
 
 Secondly, he conceives the family to be the natural enemy of the state; and he entertains the serious hope that an universal brotherhood may take the place of private interests–an aspiration which, although not justified by experience, haspossessedmanynobleminds. Ontheotherhand,thereisnosentimentor imaginationintheconnectionswhichmenandwomenaresupposedbyhimto form; humanbeingsreturntotheleveloftheanimals,neitherexaltingtoheaven, nor yet abusing the natural instincts. All that world of poetry and fancy which the passion of love has called forth in modern literature and romance wouldhavebeenbanishedbyPlato. ThearrangementsofmarriageintheRepublic are directed to one object– the improvement of the race. In successive generationsagreatdevelopmentbothofbodilyandmentalqualitiesmightbe possible. The analogy of animals tends to show that mankind can within certainlimitsreceiveachangeofnature. Andasinanimalsweshouldcommonly choosethebestforbreeding,anddestroytheothers,sotheremustbeaselection madeofthehumanbeingswhoselivesareworthytobepreserved.
 
 WestartbackhorrifiedfromthisPlatonicideal,inthebelief,first,thatthehigher feelings of humanity are far too strong to be crushedout; secondly, that if the plancouldbecarriedintoexecutionweshouldbepoorlyrecompensedbyimprovementsinthebreedforthelossofthebestthingsinlife.Thegreatestregard fortheweakestandmeanestofhumanbeings–theinfant, thecriminal, theinsane, the idiot, trulyseems to us one of the noblest results of Christianity. We havelearned,thoughasyetimperfectly,thattheindividualmanhasanendless value in the sight of God, and that we honour Him when we honour the darkened and disfigured image of Him (Laws). This is the lesson which Christ taught in a parable when He said, ’Their angels do always behold the face of MyFatherwhichisinheaven.’ Suchlessonsareonlypartiallyrealizedinany age;theywereforeigntotheageofPlato,astheyhaveverydifferentdegreesof strengthindifferentcountriesoragesoftheChristianworld. TotheGreekthe familywasareligiousandcustomaryinstitutionbindingthememberstogether byatieinferiorinstrengthtothatoffriendship,andhavingalesssolemnand sacredsoundthanthatofcountry. Therelationshipwhichexistedonthelower levelofcustom,Platoimaginedthathewasraisingtothehigherlevelofnature andreason;whilefromthemodernandChristianpointofviewweregardhim assanctioningmurderanddestroyingthefirstprinciplesofmorality.
 
 Thegreaterrorintheseandsimilarspeculationsisthatthedifferencebetween manand theanimalsis forgottenin them. Thehuman beingisregarded with the eye of a dog- or bird-fancier, or at best of a slave- owner; the higher or human qualities are left out. The breeder of animals aims chiefly at size or speed or strength; in a few cases at courage or temper; most often the fitness http://www.idph.net 140 IDPH of the animal for food is the great desideratum.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
