..
 
 Socrates proceeds: But where amid all this is justice? Son of Ariston, tell me where. Lightacandleandsearchthecity,andgetyourbrotherandtherestof our friends to help in seeking for her. ’That won’t do,’ replied Glaucon, ’you yourselfpromisedtomakethesearchandtalkedabouttheimpietyofdeserting justice.’ Well, I said, I will lead the way, but do you follow. My notion is, thatour Statebeing perfectwillcontain allthefour virtues–wisdom, courage, temperance,justice. Ifweeliminatethethreefirst,theunknownremainderwill bejustice.
 
 First then, of wisdom: the State which we have called into being will be wise because politic. And policy is one among many kinds of skill,–not the skill of the carpenter, or of the worker in metal, or of the husbandman, but the skill of him who advises about the interests of the whole State. Of such a kind is theskilloftheguardians,whoareasmallclassinnumber,farsmallerthanthe blacksmiths; but in them is concentrated the wisdom of the State. And if this smallrulingclasshavewisdom,thenthewholeStatewillbewise.
 
 Oursecondvirtueiscourage,whichwehavenodifficultyinfindinginanother class–thatofsoldiers. Couragemaybedefinedasasortofsalvation–theneverfailingsalvationoftheopinionswhichlawandeducationhaveprescribedconcerning dangers. You know the way in which dyers first prepare the white groundandthenlayonthedyeofpurpleorofanyothercolour. Coloursdyed inthiswaybecomefixed,andnosoaporlyewilleverwashthemout. Nowthe groundiseducation,andthelawsarethecolours;andifthegroundisproperly laid,neitherthesoapofpleasurenorthelyeofpainorfearwilleverwashthem out.ThispowerwhichpreservesrightopinionaboutdangerIwouldaskyouto call’courage,’addingtheepithet’political’or’civilized’inordertodistinguish itfrommereanimalcourageandfromahighercouragewhichmayhereafterbe discussed.
 
 Two virtues remain; temperance and justice. More than the preceding virtues temperancesuggeststheideaofharmony.Somelightisthrownuponthenature ofthisvirtuebythepopulardescriptionofamanas’masterofhimself’–which has an absurd sound, because the master is also the servant. The expression reallymeansthatthebetterprincipleinamanmasterstheworse. Therearein citieswholeclasses–women,slavesandthelike–whocorrespondtotheworse, and a few only to the better; and in our State the former class are held under control by the latter. Now to which of these classes does temperance belong?
 
 ’To both of them.’ And our State if any will be the abode of temperance; and wewererightindescribingthisvirtueasaharmonywhichisdiffusedthrough thewhole,makingthedwellersinthecitytobeofonemind,andattuningthe upperandmiddleandlowerclasseslikethestringsofaninstrument,whether yousupposethemtodifferinwisdom,strengthorwealth.
 
 http://www.idph.net IDPH 51 And now we are near the spot; let us draw in and surround the cover and watch with all our eyes, lest justice should slip away and escape.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
