The god of jealousy himself, he said, couldn’t find anything wrong with this kind of study.

And to men like him, I said, after they’ve spent years learning and gaining experience, we should only trust these kinds of people to run the State.

At this point, Adeimantus jumped in and said: Socrates, no one can really argue with what you’re saying. But when you talk like this, it makes people feel weird inside. They think they’re getting tricked a little with every step in the argument because they aren’t good at asking or answering questions. These little doubts build up, and by the end, they feel completely defeated, and everything they believed before seems turned upside down. It’s like when beginners play draughts (checkers) and get blocked by better players with no moves left. They end up stuck and can’t say anything in this new kind of game where words are the pieces. But the weird part is, they’re actually right. This is what I’m thinking about right now. Anyone could say that even though they can’t argue well, they see that people who love philosophy, when they study it not just as kids but as adults too, most of them turn into strange, almost useless people. The best of them might become even less helpful to the world because of the very study you praise.

Well, do you think those people are wrong?

I can’t say, he replied; but I want to know what you think.

Listen to my answer: I think they are mostly right.

Then how can you say cities won’t be bad until philosophers rule them, when we all agree philosophers aren’t useful to the cities?

You asked a question, I said, and the only way I can answer it is with a story.

Yes, Socrates; and that’s not how you usually talk, I guess.

I see, I said, you’re having fun because you’ve gotten me into a tough conversation. But now listen to my story, and you’ll be even more amazed at how wild my imagination is: because the way the best men are treated in their own cities is so terrible that nothing else on earth compares to it. So if I want to defend them, I have to make up a story and create a character made from many different things, like the weird creatures you see in pictures that are part goat and part stag.
