They go back to the house of Cephalus, who is Polemarchus’ dad and very old now. He’s sitting on a comfy chair, ready for a sacrifice. Cephalus says to Socrates, “You should visit me more often, Socrates, because I’m too old to come to you. At my age, since I’ve lost other pleasures, I enjoy talking more.”

Socrates asks him what he thinks about getting old. Cephalus says that the sadness and unhappiness in old age come from people’s attitudes. He says old age is a peaceful time because you no longer feel controlled by strong emotions. Socrates says, “But people might say you’re happy in old age because you are rich.”

Cephalus agrees a bit but not as much as people think. He tells a story about Themistocles, who said that neither he nor someone else would have been famous if they were from the other’s city. Cephalus says something similar: “A good poor man can’t be happy when old, but neither can a bad rich man.”

Socrates notices that Cephalus doesn’t seem to worry much about his wealth. He guesses it’s because Cephalus inherited it rather than earned it. Socrates asks what Cephalus thinks is the main benefit of being rich. Cephalus answers that when you get old, you start to believe more in the afterlife. At that point, having done justice, never having been forced to do wrong because of poverty, and never cheating anyone feel like great blessings.

Socrates, getting ready for an argument, asks, “What does justice really mean? Is it just telling the truth and paying your debts?”

He wonders, “Is that all? Or are there exceptions? For example, if my friend went crazy, should I give back the sword I borrowed from him when he was sane?” Cephalus says, “There must be exceptions.” Then Polemarchus says that the definition they gave is supported by the poet Simonides.

Cephalus then leaves to take care of the sacrifices and hands over the discussion to his son, Polemarchus, as Socrates jokes.

The talk about old age ends here. Plato, as usual, brings up the main question of the entire work: what is justice? He starts by asking this question, which Glaucon later pushes further by talking about external goods like wealth. The brief mention of the afterlife by Cephalus hints at the final story Plato will tell.

The description of a just person is a natural introduction to the long discussion that follows. It also suggests that even though we might struggle to understand justice, it’s not hard to tell who is a just person.

The first explanation of justice is backed up by Simonides’ saying. Now Socrates wants to show that splitting justice into two separate rules that don’t connect doesn’t answer the question well.

He continues: What did Simonides really mean by his saying? Did he mean I should give a weapon back to a madman? No, not if the madman is a friend and giving it back would cause harm.
