Justso,hesaid,theyshouldfollowthewords.
 
 Andwillnotthewordsandthecharacterofthestyledependonthetemperof thesoul?
 
 Yes.
 
 Andeverythingelseonthestyle?
 
 Yes.
 
 Then beauty of style and harmony and grace and good rhythm depend on simplicity,–Imeanthetruesimplicityofarightlyandnoblyorderedmindand character,notthatothersimplicitywhichisonlyaneuphemismforfolly?
 
 Verytrue,hereplied.
 
 Andifouryoutharetodotheirworkinlife,musttheynotmakethesegraces andharmoniestheirperpetualaim?
 
 Theymust.
 
 Andsurelytheartofthepainterandeveryothercreativeandconstructiveart are full of them,–weaving, embroidery, architecture, and every kind of manufacture; also nature, animal and vegetable,–in all of them there is grace or the absenceofgrace. Anduglinessanddiscordandinharmoniousmotionarenearlyalliedtoillwordsandillnature,asgraceandharmonyarethetwinsisters ofgoodnessandvirtueandbeartheirlikeness.
 
 Thatisquitetrue,hesaid.
 
 But shall our superintendence go no further, and are the poets only to be required by us to express the image of the good in their works, on pain, if they do anything else, of expulsion from our State? Or is the same control to be extendedtootherartists,andaretheyalsotobeprohibitedfromexhibitingthe oppositeformsofviceandintemperanceandmeannessandindecencyinsculptureandbuildingandtheothercreativearts;andishewhocannotconformto this rule of ours to be prevented from practising his art in our State, lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted by him? We would not have our guardians growupamidimagesofmoraldeformity,asinsomenoxiouspasture,andtherebrowseandfeeduponmanyabanefulherbandflowerdaybyday,littleby little,untiltheysilentlygatherafesteringmassofcorruptionintheirownsoul.
 
 Let our artists rather be those who are gifted to discern the true nature of the beautifulandgraceful;thenwillouryouthdwellinalandofhealth,amidfair http://www.idph.net IDPH 257 sightsandsounds,andreceivethegoodineverything;andbeauty,theeffluenceoffairworks,shallflowintotheeyeandear,likeahealth-givingbreezefrom a purer region, and insensibly draw the soul from earliest years into likeness andsympathywiththebeautyofreason.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
