Yes.
 
 Andthepilotlikewise,inthestrictsenseoftheterm,isarulerofsailorsandnot ameresailor?
 
 Thathasbeenadmitted.
 
 And such a pilot and ruler will provide and prescribe for the interest of the sailorwhoisunderhim,andnotforhisownortheruler’sinterest?
 
 Hegaveareluctant’Yes.’ Then, I said, Thrasymachus, there isno onein anyrulewho, in sofar ashe is aruler,considersorenjoinswhatisforhisowninterest,butalwayswhatisfor theinterestofhissubjectorsuitabletohisart; tothathelooks, andthatalone heconsidersineverythingwhichhesaysanddoes.
 
 Whenwehadgottothispointintheargument,andeveryonesawthatthedefinitionofjusticehadbeencompletelyupset,Thrasymachus,insteadofreplying tome,said: Tellme,Socrates,haveyougotanurse?
 
 Why do you ask such a question, I said, when you ought rather to be answering?
 
 Becausesheleavesyoutosnivel,andneverwipesyournose: shehasnoteven taughtyoutoknowtheshepherdfromthesheep.
 
 Whatmakesyousaythat? Ireplied.
 
 Because you fancy that the shepherd or neatherd fattens or tends the sheep or oxen with a view to their own good and not to the good of himself or his master;andyoufurtherimaginethattherulersofstates,iftheyaretruerulers, neverthinkoftheirsubjectsassheep,andthattheyarenotstudyingtheirown advantagedayandnight. Oh,no; andsoentirelyastrayareyouinyourideas about the just and unjust as not even to know that justice and the just are in realityanother’sgood;thatistosay,theinterestoftherulerandstronger,and thelossofthesubjectandservant; andinjusticetheopposite; fortheunjustis lordoverthetrulysimpleandjust: heisthestronger,andhissubjectsdowhat is for his interest, and minister to his happiness, which is very far from being their own. Consider further, most foolish Socrates, that the just is always a loserincomparisonwiththeunjust. Firstofall,inprivatecontracts: wherever the unjust is the partner of the just you will find that, when the partnership is dissolved, the unjust man has always more and the just less. Secondly, in their dealings with the State: when there is an income-tax, the just man will pay more and the unjust less on the same amount of income; and when there isanythingtobereceivedtheonegainsnothingandtheothermuch. Observe http://www.idph.net 196 IDPH also what happens when they take an office; there is the just man neglecting his affairs and perhaps suffering other losses, and getting nothing out of the public,becauseheisjust;moreoverheishatedbyhisfriendsandacquaintance forrefusingtoservetheminunlawfulways.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
