He, as soonashewasbaptised, began, againstourwills, withmoreearnestaffection thanwisdom,toreasonofChrist’sreligion,andbegantowaxsohotinhismatter,thathedidnotonlypreferourreligionbeforeallother,butalsodiddespise andcondemnallother,callingthemprofane,andthefollowersofthemwicked and devilish, and the children of everlasting damnation. When he had thus longreasonedthematter,theylaidholdonhim,accusedhim,andcondemned himintoexile,notasadespiserofreligion,butasaseditiouspersonandaraiserupofdissensionamongthepeople’).’ Inthepublicservices’noprayersbe used, butsuchaseverymanmayboldlypronouncewithoutgivingoffenceto anysect.’ Hesayssignificantly,’Therebethatgiveworshiptoamanthatwas onceofexcellentvirtueoroffamousglory,notonlyasGod,butalsothechiefest and highest God. But the most and the wisest part, rejecting all these, believe thatthereisacertaingodlypowerunknown,farabovethecapacityandreach ofman’swit, dispersedthroughoutalltheworld, notinbigness, butinvirtue and power. Him they call the Father of all. To Him alone they attribute the beginnings, the increasings, the proceedings, the changes, and the ends of all things.Neithergivetheyanydivinehonourstoanyotherthanhim.’Sofarwas Morefromsharingthepopularbeliefsofhistime. Yetattheendheremindsus thathedoesnotinallrespectsagreewiththecustomsandopinionsoftheUtopianswhichhedescribes.Andweshouldlethimhavethebenefitofthissaving clause,andnotrudelywithdrawtheveilbehindwhichhehasbeenpleasedto concealhimself.
 
 Nor is he less in advance of popular opinion in his political and moral speculations. He would like to bring military glory into contempt; he would set all sorts of idle people to profitable occupation, including in the same class, priests, women, noblemen, gentlemen, and ’sturdy and valiant beggars,’ that the labour of all may be reduced to six hours a day. His dislike of capital punishment,andplansforthereformationofoffenders;hisdetestationofpriests andlawyers(Comparehissatiricalobservation: ’They(theUtopians)havepriests of exceeding holiness, and therefore very few.); his remark that ’although every one may hear of ravenous dogs and wolves and cruel man-eaters, it is noteasytofindstatesthatarewellandwiselygoverned,’arecuriouslyatvariancewiththenotionsofhisageandindeedwithhisownlife. Therearemany pointsin whichhe showsa modernfeeling anda propheticinsightlike Plato.
 
 Heisasanitaryreformer; hemaintainsthatcivilizedstateshavearighttothe soilofwastecountries;heisinclinedtotheopinionwhichplaceshappinessin virtuous pleasures, but herein, as he thinks, not disagreeing from those other philosopherswhodefinevirtuetobealifeaccordingtonature. Heextendsthe idea of happiness so as to include the happiness of others; and he argues inhttp://www.idph.net IDPH 171 geniously, ’All men agree that we ought to make others happy; but if others, howmuchmoreourselves!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
