), but the period of human birthiscomprehendedinanumberinwhichfirstincrementsbyinvolutionand evolution (or squared and cubed) obtaining three intervals and four terms of like and unlike, waxing and waning numbers, make all the terms commensurable and agreeable to one another. (Probably the numbers 3, 4, 5, 6 of which the three first = the sides of the Pythagorean triangle. The terms will then be 3cubed,4cubed,5cubed,whichtogether=6cubed=216.) Thebaseofthese (3)withathirdadded(4)whencombinedwithfive(20)andraisedtothethird powerfurnishestwoharmonies;thefirstasquarewhichisahundredtimesas great(400=4x100)(Orthefirstasquarewhichis100x100=10,000.Thewhole numberwillthenbe17,500=asquareof100,andanoblongof100by75.),and theotherafigurehavingonesideequaltotheformer,butoblong,consistingof ahundrednumberssquareduponrationaldiametersofasquare(i.e. omitting fractions),thesideofwhichisfive(7x7=49x100=4900),eachofthembeing lessbyone(thantheperfectsquarewhichincludesthefractions,sc. 50)orless by (Or, ’consisting of two numbers squared upon irrational diameters,’ etc. = 100. ForotherexplanationsofthepassageseeIntroduction.) twoperfectsquaresofirrationaldiameters(ofasquarethesideofwhichisfive=50+50=100); andahundredcubesofthree(27x100=2700+4900+400=8000). Nowthis number represents a geometrical figure which has control over the good and evil of births. For when your guardians are ignorant of the law of births, and unite bride and bridegroom out of season, the children will not be goodly or fortunate. Andthoughonlythebestofthemwillbeappointedbytheirpredecessors,stilltheywillbeunworthytoholdtheirfathers’places,andwhenthey comeintopowerasguardians,theywillsoonbefoundtofailintakingcareof us,theMuses,firstbyunder-valuingmusic;whichneglectwillsoonextendto gymnastic; and hence the young men of your State will be less cultivated. In thesucceedinggenerationrulerswillbeappointedwhohavelosttheguardian power of testing the metal of your different races, which, like Hesiod’s, are of goldandsilverandbrassandiron.Andsoironwillbemingledwithsilver,and brasswithgold,andhencetherewillarisedissimilarityandinequalityandirregularity,whichalwaysandinallplacesarecausesofhatredandwar.Thisthe Musesaffirmtobethestockfromwhichdiscordhassprung,whereverarising; andthisistheiranswertous.
 
 Yes,andwemayassumethattheyanswertruly.
 
 Why,yes,Isaid,ofcoursetheyanswertruly;howcantheMusesspeakfalsely?
 
 AndwhatdotheMusessaynext?
 
 Whendiscordarose,thenthetworacesweredrawndifferentways:theironand brassfelltoacquiringmoneyandlandandhousesandgoldandsilver;butthe goldandsilverraces,notwantingmoneybuthavingthetruerichesintheirown nature, inclined towards virtue and the ancient order of things. There was a http://www.idph.net IDPH 405 battlebetweenthem,andatlasttheyagreedtodistributetheirlandandhouses among individual owners; and they enslaved their friends and maintainers, whom they had formerly protected in the condition of freemen, and made of them subjects and servants; and they themselves were engaged in war and in keepingawatchagainstthem.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
