Moreover the science has indirecteffects,whicharenotsmall.
 
 Ofwhatkind? hesaid.
 
 Therearethemilitaryadvantagesofwhichyouspoke,Isaid;andinalldepartmentsofknowledge,asexperienceproves,anyonewhohasstudiedgeometry isinfinitelyquickerofapprehensionthanonewhohasnot.
 
 Yesindeed,hesaid,thereisaninfinitedifferencebetweenthem.
 
 Thenshallweproposethisasasecondbranchofknowledgewhichouryouth willstudy?
 
 Letusdoso,hereplied.
 
 Andsupposewemakeastronomythethird–whatdoyousay?
 
 I am strongly inclined to it, he said; the observation of the seasons and of monthsandyearsisasessentialtothegeneralasitistothefarmerorsailor.
 
 Iamamused,Isaid,atyourfearoftheworld,whichmakesyouguardagainst theappearanceofinsistinguponuselessstudies;andIquiteadmitthedifficulty ofbelievingthatineverymanthereisaneyeofthesoulwhich,whenbyother pursuits lost and dimmed, is by these purified and re-illumined; and is more precious far than ten thousand bodily eyes, for by it alone is truthseen. Now therearetwoclassesofpersons:oneclassofthosewhowillagreewithyouand willtakeyourwordsasarevelation;anotherclasstowhomtheywillbeutterly unmeaning,andwhowillnaturallydeemthemtobeidletales,fortheyseeno sortofprofitwhichistobeobtainedfromthem. Andthereforeyouhadbetter decideatoncewithwhichofthetwoyouareproposingtoargue. Youwillvery likely say with neither, and that your chief aim in carrying on the argument is your own improvement; at the same time you do not grudge to others any benefitwhichtheymayreceive.
 
 IthinkthatIshouldprefertocarryontheargumentmainlyonmyownbehalf.
 
 Thentakeastepbackward,forwehavegonewrongintheorderofthesciences.
 
 Whatwasthemistake? hesaid.
 
 Afterplanegeometry,Isaid,weproceededatoncetosolidsinrevolution,instead of taking solids in themselves; whereas after the second dimension the third, which is concerned with cubes and dimensions of depth, ought to have followed.
 
 Thatistrue,Socrates;butsolittleseemstobeknownasyetaboutthesesubjects.
 
 Why, yes, I said, and for two reasons:–in the first place, no government patronises them; this leads to a want of energy in the pursuit of them, and they http://www.idph.net 388 IDPH aredifficult; inthesecondplace, studentscannotlearnthem unlesstheyhave a director.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
