He only studies a small part of knowledge because all knowledge has become too big for one person to understand or learn in a lifetime. He understands the different areas of science and how they relate to the human mind better than people did in ancient times. Like Plato, he believes all knowledge is connected, but not in the way philosophy started by studying basic math. Instead, it’s the result of many people working on it over many years. He knows math is important for almost every other subject, but he doesn’t think all knowledge can be turned into just math.

He must also have a strong and good character because without it, even a genius loses much of their greatness. When he thinks about the world as something huge and himself as just one small part of a long chain of life, he doesn’t worry too much about his own life or fear death.

Adeimantus first complains about the way Socrates reasons, showing that Plato knows his method isn’t perfect. He says Socrates finds answers because he knows how to ask the right questions. In long arguments, words can change their meaning a little, or some ideas might be assumed or conclusions made with too much certainty. These small changes add up and make the final result very different. This is why trying to use math formulas in logic doesn’t work well. Language isn’t as exact as numbers or symbols, and this makes long arguments weaker.

Even though Socrates answers this complaint well here, it suggests that Plato thought the questioning style of Socrates needed to be replaced by a more positive and helpful way. Some of Plato’s later works show examples of this new way. Adeimantus also says the ideal is totally different from real life because experience shows philosophers are either useless or dishonest. Surprisingly, Socrates agrees with this and explains it with a story, first joking that he isn’t very creative. In this story, regular people are different from professional politicians and are seen with sympathy, not blame, like a “noble captain who isn’t very quick.” Philosophers seem useless because people don’t listen to them. Throughout history, people have either ignored or feared those who use ideas instead of weapons.

About false philosophers, Socrates says the best ones are the most likely to be corrupted, and those with finer natures are more likely to be harmed by outside problems.
