That’s true, he said.

But can we really praise and admire someone who does things that we ourselves would hate and be ashamed of?

No, he said, that wouldn’t make sense.

Actually, I said, it does make sense from one point of view.

What point of view?

Well, I explained, when bad things happen to us, we naturally want to cry and feel sad. But we try to control these feelings. When we see poets showing this kind of sadness, it helps us feel better because it’s not our own trouble but someone else’s. Our kinder side, which isn’t fully controlled by reason or habit, lets this sympathy come out. We think that feeling sorry for someone and praising them doesn’t hurt us. We enjoy it and don’t want to lose that feeling or the poem.

Most people don’t realize that feeling bad about other people’s problems can actually make us feel some of their pain too. So, the sadness we feel watching others suffer is hard to stop inside ourselves.

That’s so true!

Does the same thing happen with funny stuff? There are jokes you’d be embarrassed to make yourself, but when you hear them in a play or with friends, you laugh a lot and don’t feel grossed out. It’s like with pity. People naturally want to laugh. You might hold back from laughing because you don’t want to seem silly, but when you’re at the theater, you let yourself laugh. Then later, you might even act like the funny person without realizing it.

That’s definitely true, he said.

The same goes for feelings like lust, anger, desire, pain, and pleasure. These emotions come with every action. Poetry doesn’t stop these feelings; it actually feeds and grows them. Poetry lets these feelings take control, even though we should try to control them if we want to be happier and better people.

I can’t argue with that.

So, Glaucon, I said, whenever you hear people praising Homer and saying he’s the best teacher for Greece, that he helps us learn and live better, it’s okay to like and respect those people—they are good people as far as they understand. And we should agree that Homer is the greatest poet and the best tragedy writer. But we must stay sure that only poems that honor the gods and praise famous good people should be allowed in our city.
