GreatermattersaretobedeterminedbythelegislatororbytheoracleofDelphi,lessermattersaretobelefttothetemporaryregulationofthecitizensthemselves. Plato isawarethatlaissezfaireisanimportantelementofgovernment. Thediseases ofaStateareliketheheadsofahydra;theymultiplywhentheyarecutoff. The trueremedyforthemisnotextirpationbutprevention.Andthewaytoprevent them is to take care of education, and education will take care of all the rest.
 
 So in modern times men have often felt that the only political measure worth having–theonlyonewhichwouldproduceanycertainorlastingeffect, wasa measureofnationaleducation. Andinourownmorethaninanypreviousage thenecessityhasbeenrecognizedofrestoringtheever-increasingconfusionof lawtosimplicityandcommonsense.
 
 Whenthetraininginmusicandgymnasticiscompleted,therefollowsthefirst stage of active and public life. But soon education is to begin again from a new point of view. In the interval between the Fourth and Seventh Books we have discussed the nature of knowledge, and have thence been led to form a higherconceptionofwhatwasrequiredofus. Fortrueknowledge, according to Plato, is of abstractions, and has to do, not with particulars or individuals, but with universals only; not with the beauties of poetry, but with the ideas of philosophy. And the great aim of education is the cultivation of the habit of abstraction. This is to be acquired through the study of the mathematical sciences. Theyalonearecapableofgivingideasofrelation,andofarousingthe dormantenergiesofthought.
 
 MathematicsintheageofPlatocomprehendedaverysmallpartofthatwhich is now included in them; but they bore a much larger proportion to the sum of human knowledge. They were the only organon of thought which the human mind at that time possessed, and the only measure by which the chaos ofparticularscouldbereducedtoruleandorder. Thefacultywhichtheytrainedwasnaturallyatwarwiththepoeticalorimaginative; andhencetoPlato, whoiseverywhereseekingforabstractionsandtryingtogetridoftheillusions of sense, nearly the whole of education is contained in them. They seemed to haveaninexhaustibleapplication,partlybecausetheirtruelimitswerenotyet understood. ThesePlatohimselfisbeginningtoinvestigate;thoughnotaware that number and figure are mere abstractions of sense, he recognizes that the forms used by geometry are borrowed from the sensible world. He seeks to findtheultimategroundofmathematicalideasintheideaofgood,thoughhe doesnotsatisfactorilyexplaintheconnexionbetweenthem;andinhisconceptionoftherelationofideastonumbers,hefallsveryfarshortofthedefiniteness attributedtohimbyAristotle(Met.). Butifhefailstorecognizethetruelimits ofmathematics,healsoreachesapointbeyondthem;inhisview,ideasofnumberbecomesecondarytoahigherconceptionofknowledge. Thedialecticianis http://www.idph.net IDPH 157 asmuchabovethemathematicianasthemathematicianisabovetheordinary man.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
