According to Plato, a judge shouldn’t be young, just like Aristotle thought a young man isn’t ready to learn about morals. Bad people know about doing wrong but don’t understand what’s good. However, it’s not clear if this way of thinking is correct. In an important part of his book Laws, Plato admits that bad people can sometimes understand what’s good. At first, it seemed strange that gentleness and courage could go together, but later it was proven true. Plato might have also realized that even if someone knows about evil, they can still hate it. Being good has a clear goal, which helps us understand what’s bad. Knowing people’s character is something we can sense naturally, even without special experience with good or evil.

One of Plato’s most interesting ideas, which was very different from other Greek ideas of his time, is about changing social ranks. In Sparta, sometimes slaves (Helots) could become free, and citizens could lose their status in special cases. In ancient Greek aristocracies, being worthy was important for ruling. The founders of states were seen as heroes because of their great actions above normal people. Later, warriors and law-makers earned citizenship and top rank because of their services. Although there isn’t much proof of a perfect aristocracy in early Greek history or any real state, philosophers dreamed of rule by the best people. Plato wanted strict tests for the guardians of his ideal state, so anyone who didn’t meet the standards couldn’t govern. This kind of strict education was used in some Greek states, especially Sparta. He also said that the caste system, which was common in ancient times and still exists in some places today, should sometimes be ignored in favor of merit. Plato knew most people hated changes to society’s order, so he called his idea a “monstrous fiction.” He used myths, like the “Phoenician tale,” to explain his thoughts. Two important points he made were: first, social ranks depend on things before a person is born; second, personal qualities should allow people to move beyond those ranks.
