“That’s mostly true,” he said.

“Yes,” I said, “but if this idea of justice doesn’t work, then what else can we say it is?”

During the talk, Thrasymachus tried several times to take control of the argument, but the others stopped him because they wanted to hear the full discussion. After Polemarchus and I finished talking and there was a quiet moment, he couldn’t stay silent anymore. He gathered himself and attacked us like a wild animal. We were really scared to see him like that.

He shouted to everyone, “What nonsense has Socrates taught you all? And why are you fooling around and giving in to each other? If you really want to know what justice is, you should not just ask questions but also give answers. Don’t try to look good by making your opponent look bad. Many people can ask questions but can’t answer them. And now, I won’t accept justice being duty, advantage, profit, gain, or interest. That kind of nonsense won’t work for me. I want clear and exact answers.”

I was so scared by his words that I couldn’t look at him without shaking.

I think if I hadn’t kept my eyes on him, I would have been speechless. But when I saw he was getting angrier, I looked at him first and was able to answer.

“Thrasymachus,” I said nervously, “don’t be so hard on us. Polemarchus and I might have made a small mistake in the argument, but I promise it wasn’t on purpose. If we were looking for a piece of gold, you wouldn’t think we were just giving up on each other and missing our chance to find it. So why, when we’re searching for justice—which is more valuable than gold—do you say we’re weak and not trying our best to find the truth? No, my friend, we really want to, but we just can’t. So, if you know everything, you should feel sorry for us and not get mad.”

“That’s so typical of Socrates!” he said with a bitter laugh. “That’s your sarcastic way! Didn’t I see this coming? Didn’t I already tell you that no matter what he’s asked, he’ll refuse to answer and use sarcasm or tricks to avoid giving a real answer?”

“You’re a philosopher, Thrasymachus,” I replied, “and I know well that if you ask someone what numbers add up to twelve, but don’t let them say six times two, or three times four, or two times six, or four times three—because ‘that kind of nonsense won’t work for me’—then obviously no one can answer you if that’s how you ask.”
