Wecannot.
 
 Then the first thing will be to establish a censorship of the writers of fiction, andletthecensorsreceiveanytaleoffictionwhichisgood,andrejectthebad; andwewilldesiremothersandnursestotelltheirchildrentheauthorisedones only. Let them fashion the mind with such tales, even more fondly than they mouldthebodywiththeirhands;butmostofthosewhicharenowinusemust bediscarded.
 
 Ofwhattalesareyouspeaking? hesaid.
 
 Youmayfindamodelofthelesserinthegreater,Isaid;fortheyarenecessarily ofthesametype,andthereisthesamespiritinbothofthem.
 
 Verylikely,hereplied;butIdonotasyetknowwhatyouwouldtermthegreater.
 
 Those, I said, which are narrated by Homer and Hesiod, and the rest of the poets,whohaveeverbeenthegreatstory-tellersofmankind.
 
 Butwhichstoriesdoyoumean,hesaid;andwhatfaultdoyoufindwiththem?
 
 Afaultwhichismostserious,Isaid;thefaultoftellingalie,and,whatismore, abadlie.
 
 Butwhenisthisfaultcommitted?
 
 Whenever an erroneous representation is made of the nature of gods and heroes,–aswhenapainterpaintsaportraitnothavingtheshadowofalikeness totheoriginal.
 
 Yes, he said, that sort of thing is certainly very blameable; but what are the storieswhichyoumean?
 
 First of all, I said, there was that greatest of all lies in high places, which the poettoldaboutUranus,andwhichwasabadlietoo,–ImeanwhatHesiodsays thatUranusdid,andhowCronusretaliatedonhim. ThedoingsofCronus,and thesufferingswhichinturnhissoninflicteduponhim,eveniftheyweretrue, oughtcertainlynottobelightlytoldtoyoungandthoughtlesspersons;ifpossible,theyhadbetterbeburiedinsilence. Butifthereisanabsolutenecessityfor theirmention,achosenfewmightheartheminamystery,andtheyshouldsacrificenotacommon(Eleusinian)pig,butsomehugeandunprocurablevictim; andthenthenumberofthehearerswillbeveryfewindeed.
 
 Why,yes,saidhe,thosestoriesareextremelyobjectionable.
 
 Yes, Adeimantus, they are stories not to be repeated in our State; the young man should not be told that in committing the worst of crimes he is far from http://www.idph.net 232 IDPH doing anything outrageous; and that even if he chastises his father when he doeswrong,inwhatevermanner,hewillonlybefollowingtheexampleofthe firstandgreatestamongthegods.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
