Forconcerningpoliticalmeasures, wechieflyask: Howwilltheyaffectthehappinessofmankind?
 
 Yetheretoowemayobservethatwhatwetermexpediencyismerelythelaw of right limited by the conditions of human society. Right and truth are the highestaimsofgovernmentaswellasofindividuals; andweoughtnottolose sight of them because we cannot directly enforce them. They appeal to the bettermindofnations; andsometimestheyaretoomuchformerelytemporal intereststoresist. Theyarethewatchwordswhichallmenuseinmattersofpublicpolicy,aswellasintheirprivatedealings;thepeaceofEuropemaybesaid todependuponthem. Inthemostcommercialandutilitarianstatesofsociety thepowerofideasremains. Andallthehigherclassofstatesmenhaveinthem somethingofthatidealismwhichPericlesissaidtohavegatheredfromtheteachingofAnaxagoras. Theyrecognisethatthetrueleaderofmenmustbeabove themotivesofambition,andthatnationalcharacterisofgreatervaluethanmaterialcomfortandprosperity. AndthisistheorderofthoughtinPlato;first,he expectshiscitizenstodotheirduty,andthenunderfavourablecircumstances, thatistosay,inawell-orderedState,theirhappinessisassured.Thathewasfar fromexcludingthemodernprincipleofutilityinpoliticsissufficientlyevident from other passages; in which ’the most beneficial is affirmed to be the most honourable’,andalso’themostsacred’.
 
 Wemaynote (1)ThemannerinwhichtheobjectionofAdeimantushere,isdesignedtodraw outanddeepentheargumentofSocrates.
 
 (2) The conception of a whole as lying at the foundation both of politics and of art, in the latter supplying the only principle of criticism, which, under the various names of harmony, symmetry, measure, proportion, unity, the Greek seemstohaveappliedtoworksofart.
 
 (3)TherequirementthattheStateshouldbelimitedinsize,afterthetraditional model of a Greek state; as in the Politics of Aristotle, the fact that the cities of Hellasweresmallisconvertedintoaprinciple.
 
 (4) The humorous pictures of the lean dogs and the fatted sheep, of the light activeboxerupsettingtwostoutgentlemenatleast, ofthe’charming’patients who are always making themselves worse; or again, the playful assumption thatthereisnoStatebutourown;orthegraveironywithwhichthestatesman isexcusedwhobelievesthatheissixfeethighbecauseheistoldso,andhaving nothingtomeasurewithistobepardonedforhisignorance–heistooamusing forustobeseriouslyangrywithhim.
 
 (5)Thelightandsuperficialmannerinwhichreligionispassedoverwhenprovisionhasbeenmadefortwogreatprinciples,–first,thatreligionshallbebased onthehighestconceptionofthegods,secondly,thatthetruenationalorHellehttp://www.idph.net 50 IDPH nictypeshallbemaintained.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
