Andsotheyoungmanreturnsintothecountryofthelotus-eaters,andtakesup hisdwellingthereinthefaceofallmen; andifanyhelpbesentbyhisfriends to the oligarchical part of him, the aforesaid vain conceits shut the gate of the king’s fastness; and they will neither allow the embassy itself to enter, nor if privateadvisersofferthefatherlycounseloftheagedwilltheylistentothemor receivethem. Thereisabattleandtheygaintheday,andthenmodesty,which theycallsilliness, isignominiouslythrustintoexilebythem, andtemperance, whichtheynicknameunmanliness,istrampledinthemireandcastforth;they persuadementhatmoderationandorderlyexpenditurearevulgarityandmeanness,andso,bythehelpofarabbleofevilappetites,theydrivethembeyond theborder.
 
 Yes,withawill.
 
 And when they have emptied and swept clean the soul of him who is now in theirpowerandwhoisbeinginitiatedbythemingreatmysteries,thenextthing istobringbacktotheirhouseinsolenceandanarchyandwasteandimpudence in bright array having garlands on their heads, and a great company with them, hymningtheirpraisesandcallingthembysweetnames; insolencethey term breeding, and anarchy liberty, and waste magnificence, and impudence courage. And so the young man passes out of his original nature, which was trained in the school of necessity, into the freedom and libertinism of useless andunnecessarypleasures.
 
 Yes,hesaid,thechangeinhimisvisibleenough.
 
 Afterthisheliveson,spendinghismoneyandlabourandtimeonunnecessary pleasuresquiteasmuchasonnecessaryones;butifhebefortunate,andisnot toomuchdisorderedinhiswits, whenyearshaveelapsed, andtheheydayof passionisover–supposingthathethenre-admitsintothecitysomepartofthe exiledvirtues,anddoesnotwhollygivehimselfuptotheirsuccessors–inthat case he balances his pleasures and lives in a sort of equilibrium, putting the government of himself into the hands of the one which comes first and wins theturn;andwhenhehashadenoughofthat,thenintothehandsofanother; hedespisesnoneofthembutencouragesthemallequally.
 
 Verytrue,hesaid.
 
 Neitherdoeshereceiveorletpassintothefortressanytruewordofadvice; if anyonesaystohimthatsomepleasuresarethesatisfactionsofgoodandnoble desires, and others of evil desires, and that he ought to use and honour some andchastiseandmastertheothers–wheneverthisisrepeatedtohimheshakes hisheadandsaysthattheyareallalike,andthatoneisasgoodasanother.
 
 Yes,hesaid;thatisthewaywithhim.
 
 http://www.idph.net IDPH 421 Yes, I said, he lives from day to day indulging the appetite of the hour; and sometimes he is lapped in drink and strains of the flute; then he becomes a water-drinker,andtriestogetthin;thenhetakesaturnatgymnastics;sometimesidlingandneglectingeverything,thenoncemorelivingthelifeofaphilosopher; often he is busy with politics, and starts to his feet and says and does whatevercomesintohishead;and,ifheisemulousofanyonewhoisawarrior, offheisinthatdirection,orofmenofbusiness,oncemoreinthat.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
