Toomuch,however,hasbeenmadeofthisquestionbothinancientandmodern times. Thereisastageofcriticisminwhichallworks,whetherofnatureorof art,arereferredtodesign. Nowinancientwritings,andindeedinliteraturegenerally,thereremainsoftenalargeelementwhichwasnotcomprehendedinthe originaldesign. Fortheplangrowsundertheauthor’shand;newthoughtsoccurtohimintheactofwriting;hehasnotworkedouttheargumenttotheend beforehebegins. Thereaderwhoseekstofindsomeoneideaunderwhichthe wholemaybeconceived,mustnecessarilyseizeonthevaguestandmostgeneral. Thus Stallbaum, who is dissatisfied with the ordinary explanations of the argumentoftheRepublic,imagineshimselftohavefoundthetrueargument’in the representation of human life in a State perfected by justice, and governed accordingtotheideaofgood.’ Theremaybesomeuseinsuchgeneraldescriptions,buttheycanhardlybesaidtoexpressthedesignofthewriter. Thetruth is,thatwemayaswellspeakofmanydesignsasofone;norneedanythingbe excluded from the plan of a great work to which the mind is naturally led by theassociationofideas,andwhichdoesnotinterferewiththegeneralpurpose.
 
 What kind or degree of unity is to be sought after in a building, in the plasticarts,inpoetry,inprose,isaproblemwhichhastobedeterminedrelatively tothesubject-matter. ToPlato himself, theenquiry’whatwasthe intentionof the writer,’ or ’what was the principal argument of the Republic’ would have beenhardlyintelligible,andthereforehadbetterbeatoncedismissed(cp. the IntroductiontothePhaedrus).
 
 Is not the Republic the vehicle of three or four great truths which, to Plato’s own mind, are most naturally represented in the form of the State? Just as in the Jewish prophets the reign of Messiah, or ’the day of the Lord,’ or the sufferingServantorpeopleofGod,orthe’Sunofrighteousnesswithhealingin hiswings’onlyconvey,tousatleast,theirgreatspiritualideals,sothroughthe GreekStatePlatorevealstoushisownthoughtsaboutdivineperfection,which istheideaofgood–likethesuninthevisibleworld;–abouthumanperfection, which is justice–about education beginning in youth and continuing in later years–aboutpoetsandsophistsandtyrantswhoarethefalseteachersandevil rulersofmankind–about’theworld’whichistheembodimentofthem–about akingdomwhichexistsnowhereuponearthbutislaidupinheaventobethe patternandruleofhumanlife. Nosuchinspiredcreationisatunitywithitself, anymorethanthecloudsofheavenwhenthesunpiercesthroughthem. Every shade of light and dark, of truth, and of fiction which is the veil of truth, is allowableinaworkofphilosophicalimagination.Itisnotallonthesameplane; iteasilypassesfromideastomythsandfancies,fromfactstofiguresofspeech.
 
 Itisnotprosebutpoetry,atleastagreatpartofit,andoughtnottobejudged bytherulesoflogicortheprobabilitiesofhistory. Thewriterisnotfashioning http://www.idph.net IDPH 11 hisideasintoanartisticwhole; theytakepossessionofhimandaretoomuch for him.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
