Mosttrue,hesaid.
 
 But when intemperance and diseases multiply in a State, halls of justice and medicine are always being opened; and the arts of the doctor and the lawyer givethemselvesairs,findinghowkeenistheinterestwhichnotonlytheslaves butthefreemenofacitytakeaboutthem.
 
 Ofcourse.
 
 Andyetwhatgreaterproofcantherebeofabadanddisgracefulstateofeducationthanthis, thatnotonlyartisansandthemeanersortofpeopleneedthe skill of first-rate physicians and judges, but also those who would profess to have had a liberal education? Is it not disgraceful, and a great sign of want ofgood-breeding,thatamanshouldhavetogoabroadforhislawandphysic becausehehasnoneofhisownathome,andmustthereforesurrenderhimself intothehandsofothermenwhomhemakeslordsandjudgesoverhim?
 
 Ofallthings,hesaid,themostdisgraceful.
 
 Wouldyousay’most,’Ireplied,whenyouconsiderthatthereisafurtherstage oftheevilinwhichamanisnotonlyalife-longlitigant,passingallhisdaysin thecourts,eitherasplaintiffordefendant,butisactuallyledbyhisbadtasteto pridehimselfonhislitigiousness;heimaginesthatheisamasterindishonesty; abletotakeeverycrookedturn,andwriggleintoandoutofeveryhole,bending likeawithyandgettingoutofthewayofjustice: andallforwhat?–inorderto gainsmallpointsnotworthmentioning,henotknowingthatsotoorderhislife as to be able to do without a napping judge is a far higher and nobler sort of thing. Isnotthatstillmoredisgraceful?
 
 Yes,hesaid,thatisstillmoredisgraceful.
 
 Well, I said, and to require the help of medicine, not when a wound has to be cured, or on occasion of an epidemic, but just because, by indolence and a habitoflifesuchaswehavebeendescribing, menfillthemselveswithwaters and winds, as if their bodies were a marsh, compelling the ingenious sons of Asclepiustofindmorenamesfordiseases,suchasflatulenceandcatarrh;isnot this,too,adisgrace?
 
 Yes,hesaid,theydocertainlygiveverystrangeandnewfanglednamestodiseases.
 
 Yes, I said, and I do not believe that there were any such diseases in the days of Asclepius; and this I infer from the circumstance that the hero Eurypylus, after he has been wounded in Homer, drinks a posset of Pramnian wine well http://www.idph.net 262 IDPH besprinkledwithbarley-mealandgratedcheese,whicharecertainlyinflammatory,andyetthesonsofAsclepiuswhowereattheTrojanwardonotblamethe damselwhogiveshimthedrink,orrebukePatroclus,whoistreatinghiscase.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
