How is he to be wise and also innocent? When young a good man is apt to be deceived by evil-doers, because he has no pattern of evil in himself; and therefore the judge should be of a certain age; his youth should have been innocent, and he should have acquired insight into evil not by the practice of it, but by the observation of it in others. This is the ideal of a judge; the criminal turned detective is wonderfully suspicious, but when in company with good men who have experience, he is at fault, for he foolishly imagines that every one is as bad as himself. Vice may be known of virtue, but cannot know virtue. This is the sort of medicine and this the sort of law which will prevail in our State; they will be healing arts to better natures; but the evil body will be left to die by the one, and the evil soul will be put to deathbytheother. Andtheneedofeitherwillbegreatlydiminishedbygood music which will give harmony to the soul, and good gymnastic which will give health to the body. Not that this division of music and gymnastic really corresponds to soul and body; for they are both equally concerned with the soul, which is tamed by the one and aroused and sustained by the other. The two together supply our guardians with their twofold nature. The passionate disposition when it has too much gymnastic is hardened and brutalized, the gentle or philosophic temper which has too much music becomes enervated.
 
 While a man is allowing music to pour like water through the funnel of his ears,theedgeofhissoulgraduallywearsaway,andthepassionateorspirited element is melted out of him. Too little spirit is easily exhausted; too much quickly passes into nervous irritability. So, again, the athlete by feeding and training has his courage doubled, but he soon grows stupid; he is like a wild beast,readytodoeverythingbyblowsandnothingbycounselorpolicy. There aretwoprinciplesinman,reasonandpassion,andtothese,nottothesouland body,thetwoartsofmusicandgymnasticcorrespond. Hewhominglesthem inharmoniousconcordisthetruemusician,–heshallbethepresidinggeniusof ourState.
 
 The next question is, Who are to be our rulers? First, the elder must rule the younger;andthebestoftheelderswillbethebestguardians. Nowtheywillbe thebestwholovetheirsubjectsmost,andthinkthattheyhaveacommoninterestwiththeminthewelfareofthestate. Thesewemustselect;buttheymust be watched at every epoch of life to see whether they have retained the same opinionsandheldoutagainstforceandenchantment. Fortimeandpersuasion andtheloveofpleasuremayenchantamanintoachangeofpurpose,andthe forceofgriefandpainmaycompelhim. Andthereforeourguardiansmustbe menwhohavebeentriedbymanytests,likegoldintherefiner’sfire,andhave beenpassedfirstthroughdanger,thenthroughpleasure,andateveryagehave comeoutofsuchtrialsvictoriousandwithoutstain,infullcommandofthemselvesandtheirprinciples;havingalltheirfacultiesinharmoniousexercisefor their country’s good. These shall receive the highest honours both in life and death. (Itwouldperhapsbebettertoconfinetheterm’guardians’tothisselect http://www.idph.net 40 IDPH class: theyoungermenmaybecalled’auxiliaries.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
