He will only accept honors that help him become a better person; he will say no to any others. Someone said, “Then he will never be a politician.” I replied, “He will be one in his own city, but probably not in his home country, unless by some miracle.” They asked, “You mean he will be a citizen of the perfect city that doesn’t exist on Earth?” I said, “No, in heaven there is a model of such a city, and anyone who wants can live their life following that example. It doesn’t matter if such a state exists or ever will; he will live by that pattern and no other.”

The most important ideas in the 9th Book of the Republic are: (1) the explanation of pleasure; (2) the number that separates a king from a tyrant; and (3) the perfect pattern that exists in heaven.

1. Plato’s explanation of pleasure is special because he talks about balance. Unlike later followers and what Aristotle says about them, Plato isn’t against all pleasure like the Cynics. He thinks that each part of the soul should get its natural kind of pleasure. He even agrees with the Epicureans that pleasure is more than just not feeling pain. For example, some pleasures like smelling good things or feeling hope don’t come after pain. Earlier, he talked about necessary and unnecessary pleasures, and now he adds a third kind called “wild beast” pleasures, similar to Aristotle’s ideas.

Plato explains that physical pleasures are less real and often come from the mix of feeling pain and pleasure. He says the pleasures of reason are better because they are calm and steady, unlike quick physical or emotional pleasures. The highest pleasure belongs to the wise ruler because reason can judge other pleasures, but the lower parts of the soul can’t understand the pleasures of reason.

So, Plato’s ideas about pleasure were later expanded by Aristotle. Both thinkers made the mistake of thinking that because pleasure doesn’t last forever, it isn’t real. They also mixed up the lasting nature of knowledge with the pleasures that come from it. We don’t like to admit that even the pleasures of learning, though better, don’t last longer than other pleasures and depend on our body’s condition.

2. The number that separates a king from a tyrant, and royal pleasures from tyrannical ones, is 729, which is 9 cubed (9 x 9 x 9). Plato chose this number because it is closely related to human life, being almost the same as the number of days and nights in a year.
