The main problem in this early study of the mind is figuring out exactly where their angry or aggressive part is. This part can be called things like righteous anger, spirit, or passion. It is the base of courage. For Plato, courage means not just facing pain or danger in war, but also dealing with hard thinking. Even though this part isn’t fully logical, it tends to support reason. It doesn’t respond well to punishment when it’s fair. Sometimes it shows as excitement that helps a person do great things. It’s like the “lion heart” that makes a deal with reason.

On the other hand, this feeling is more about saying no to wrong or lies. It doesn’t aim to see the truth or what’s good, unlike Love in some of Plato’s other works. It is like a strict military spirit that controls honor. It is different from anger, which doesn’t include the idea of being angry for a good reason. Aristotle still used the word passion, but for him, passion lost its connection to reason and became almost the same as anger. Plato also sometimes went back to this simpler meaning.

Today and in everyday talk, anger and passion usually mean something bad. They don’t usually mean a fair or good reason for being upset. Righteous anger is too personal and random to count as its own virtue or habit. We might also wonder if Plato was right to think a person who did wrong would accept punishment as fair. That idea fits more with a philosopher or martyr, not a criminal.

We can see that Plato almost agrees with Aristotle’s big idea that “good actions make good habits.” Plato’s words about healthy actions making health and just actions making justice sound a lot like Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics. A small idea from Plato became a very important part of Aristotle’s ethics.

It’s hard to understand what Plato meant by “the longer way.” He seems to talk about a future kind of philosophy that won’t just argue by saying something can’t be both true and false at the same time. In some of his later books, he gives a rough idea of this kind of thought. But when his student Glaucon asks for the full explanation of the idea of good, Plato says he hasn’t studied the basics enough yet.

We can only guess how Plato would have finished his ideas or talked about these questions from a higher point of view. Maybe he wanted to find a way to explain parts from the whole idea first. Or maybe he wondered which ideas are part of other ideas. He might have even discovered something like the idea that the self and the universe are connected, like later philosopher Hegel said.
