The unfair people act like what looks real is the truth! A bad person who seems good can become a leader; he can marry whoever he wants, trade wherever he wants, help his friends, and hurt his enemies. If he gets rich by cheating, he can even worship the gods better and be loved more by them than a good person.

I was thinking about what to say when Adeimantus joined the fight, which was already unfair. He said the most important part was missing: “People are taught to be fair because of rewards. Parents and teachers tell us that being good will make us look better. They promise things like rich marriages and important jobs. Homer and Hesiod show pictures of good people with fat sheep, full grain fields, and trees heavy with fruit—things the gods give to the good in this life. Orphic poets say good people enjoy a paradise of endless happiness after death. Some even say their kids and grandkids will be lucky. But the bad people are buried in mud and have to do impossible tasks. In this life, bad people get a bad reputation, which Glaucon thought was actually for the good people who seem bad.”

“Here’s another argument from poems and stories: Hesiod says, ‘Being good is honorable but hard; being bad is easy and makes money.’ You often see bad people doing well and good people suffering because of fate. Beggar prophets knock on rich people’s doors, promising to fix their or their family’s sins with easy sacrifices, parties, or magic. They say they can help get rid of enemies or get souls out of purgatory. If we don’t listen, who knows what could happen?”

“When a smart and honest young person hears all this, what will he think? Will he, as Pindar says, choose justice as his stronghold or use sneaky tricks? Justice without looking good is pain and loss; being bad promises a great life. Looks control the truth and happiness. So I’ll focus on how things seem—I’ll act good but secretly be like the fox Archilochus talks about. Someone might say, ‘Badness can’t be hidden easily,’ but I say, ‘Nothing great is easy.’ Working together, power, and good talking will help a lot. And even if people say they can’t beat the gods, how do we know the gods are real?”
