But Sparta’s example, and maybe his own urge to go against what most people think, seemed to confuse him.

He wants to make one big family out of all the families in the country. He plans to pick the best men and women and only let them have kids.

But because people often get tricked by ideas (since part of human nature acts like animals and can show up in philosophy or poetry), and because breaking usual moral rules can be upsetting, it’s worth explaining more why Plato’s idea about marriage has problems. First, history shows that when polygamy (one person having many partners) is common, the people usually get worse over time. One man and one woman is how God and nature intended it. Almost all civilized societies became monogamous (one partner) a long time ago, and they never went back. The few exceptions, like among Brahmins, Muslims, or ancient Persians, actually prove the rule.

Relationships between superior and inferior races rarely create strong children because they are often careless and the kids usually don’t respect their mother or get care from their father who feels ashamed. When Europeans introduced bad habits to wild tribes, those groups died out. Polygamist groups either bring in children from other places or shrink in number, or both. Royal families and nobles who ignored nature’s laws have become fewer and weaker. Marriages based only on convenience hurt their children (like in King Lear). Marrying close relatives often leads to weak or mentally disabled kids, or sometimes wild behavior as they grow older. Prostitutes rarely have children. All this shows how important moral rules about relationships really are, and there’s way more to it than what Plato and some other thinkers imagined.

Recently, researchers found that in some primitive tribes, wives were shared like property, and the only wife a man could claim was a captured woman. Some lower races and old marriage ceremonies in civilized nations seem to prove that such customs were once common everywhere. Studying anthropology has changed how we see the first humans on Earth. We know more about original people than before, but mostly we realize how little we really know. Even with old writings, we barely understand what life was like 2,000 or 3,000 years ago. And when it comes to 200,000 or 300,000 years ago, when most humans were much closer to animals than any tribe today, we can’t even guess.
