Imean, thatyoumaylookatabedfromdifferentpointsofview, obliquelyor directlyorfromanyotherpointofview,andthebedwillappeardifferent,but thereisnodifferenceinreality. Andthesameofallthings.
 
 Yes,hesaid,thedifferenceisonlyapparent.
 
 Now let me ask you another question: Which is the art of painting designed tobe–animitationofthingsastheyare,orastheyappear–ofappearanceorof reality?
 
 Ofappearance.
 
 Then the imitator, I said, is a long way off the truth, and can do all things because he lightly touches on a small part of them, and that part an image. For example: A painter will paint a cobbler, carpenter, or any other artist, though heknowsnothingoftheirarts;and,ifheisagoodartist,hemaydeceivechildrenorsimplepersons,whenheshowsthemhispictureofacarpenterfroma distance,andtheywillfancythattheyarelookingatarealcarpenter.
 
 Certainly.
 
 And whenever any one informs us that he has found a man who knows all the arts, and all things else that anybody knows, and every single thing with a higher degree of accuracy than any other man–whoever tells us this, I think thatwecanonlyimaginehimtobeasimplecreaturewhoislikelytohavebeen deceived by some wizard or actor whom he met, and whom he thought allknowing, because he himself was unable to analyse the nature of knowledge andignoranceandimitation.
 
 Mosttrue.
 
 Andso,whenwehearpersonssayingthatthetragedians,andHomer,whoisat theirhead,knowalltheartsandallthingshuman,virtueaswellasvice,anddivinethingstoo,forthatthegoodpoetcannotcomposewellunlessheknowshis subject,andthathewhohasnotthisknowledgecanneverbeapoet,weought toconsiderwhetherherealsotheremaynotbeasimilarillusion. Perhapsthey mayhavecomeacrossimitatorsandbeendeceivedbythem;theymaynothave remembered when they saw their works that these were but imitations thrice removed from the truth, and could easily be made without any knowledge of thetruth,becausetheyareappearancesonlyandnotrealities?Or,afterall,they maybeintheright,andpoetsdoreallyknowthethingsaboutwhichtheyseem tothemanytospeaksowell?
 
 Thequestion,hesaid,shouldbyallmeansbeconsidered.
 
 Now do you suppose that if a person were able to make the original as well http://www.idph.net 462 IDPH as the image, he would seriously devote himself to the image-making branch?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
