’ Lovers of wine and lovers of ambitionalsodesiretheobjectsoftheiraffectionineveryform. Nowherecomes the point:–The philosopher too is a lover of knowledge in every form; he has an insatiablecuriosity. ’Butwill curiositymake aphilosopher? Arethe lovers of sights and sounds, who let out their ears to every chorus at the Dionysiac festivals, to be called philosophers?’ They are not truephilosophers, but only animitation. ’Thenhowarewetodescribethetrue?’ Youwouldacknowledgetheexistenceofabstractideas,suchasjustice,beauty, good, evil, which are severally one, yet in their various combinations appear tobemany. Thosewhorecognizetheserealitiesarephilosophers;whereasthe other class hear sounds and see colours, and understand their use in the arts, but cannot attain to the true or waking vision of absolute justice or beauty or truth;theyhavenotthelightofknowledge,butofopinion,andwhattheysee is a dream only. Perhaps he of whom we say the last will be angry with us; can we pacify him without revealing the disorder of his mind? Suppose we say that, if he has knowledge we rejoice to hear it, but knowledge must be of something which is, as ignorance is of something which is not; and there is a thirdthing,whichbothisandisnot,andismatterofopiniononly.Opinionand knowledge, then, having distinct objects, must also be distinct faculties. And by faculties I mean powers unseen and distinguishable only by the difference in their objects, as opinion and knowledge differ, since the one is liable to err, buttheotherisunerringandisthemightiestofallourfaculties. Ifbeingisthe object of knowledge, and not-being of ignorance, and these are the extremes, opinion must lie between them, and may be called darker than the one and brighter than the other. This intermediate or contingent matter is and is not at the same time, and partakes both of existence and of non-existence. Now I wouldaskmygoodfriend,whodeniesabstractbeautyandjustice,andaffirms a many beautiful and a many just, whether everything he sees is not in some pointofviewdifferent–thebeautifulugly,thepiousimpious,thejustunjust? Is not the double also the half, and are not heavy and light relative terms which passintooneanother?Everythingisandisnot,asintheoldriddle–’Amanand notamanshotanddidnotshootabirdandnotabirdwithastoneandnota stone.’ The mind cannot be fixed on either alternative; and these ambiguous, intermediate, erring, half-lighted objects, which have a disorderly movement intheregionbetweenbeingandnot-being,arethepropermatterofopinion,as theimmutableobjectsarethepropermatterofknowledge.Andhewhogrovels intheworldofsense,andhasonlythisuncertainperceptionofthings,isnota philosopher,butaloverofopiniononly...
 
 The fifth book is the new beginning of the Republic, in which the community of property and of family are first maintained, and the transition is made to the kingdom of philosophers. For both of these Plato, after his manner, has http://www.idph.net IDPH 63 been preparing in some chance words of Book IV, which fall unperceived on the reader’s mind, as they are supposed at first to have fallen on the ear of GlauconandAdeimantus.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
