Theyarenotexamplestobefollowedbyus;forthe useoflanguageoughtineverygenerationtobecomeclearerandclearer. Like Shakespere,theyweregreatinspite,notinconsequence,oftheirimperfections of expression. But there is no reason for returning to the necessary obscurity which prevailed in the infancy of literature. The English poets of the last century were certainly not obscure; and we have no excuse for losing what they hadgained,orforgoingbacktotheearlierortransitionalagewhichpreceded them. Thethoughtofourowntimeshasnotout-strippedlanguage; awantof Plato’s’artofmeasuring’istherulecauseofthedisproportionbetweenthem.
 
 3. In the third book of the Republic a nearer approach is made to a theory of art than anywhere else in Plato. His views may be summed up as follows:– True art is not fanciful and imitative, but simple and ideal,– the expression of the highest moral energy, whether in action or repose. To live among works of plastic art which are of this noble and simple character, or to listen to such strains, is the best of influences,–the true Greek atmosphere, in which youth should be brought up. That is the way to create in them a natural good taste, whichwillhaveafeelingoftruthandbeautyinallthings. Forthoughthepoets are to be expelled, still art is recognized as another aspect of reason–like love in the Symposium, extending over the same sphere, but confined to the preliminaryeducation,andactingthroughthepowerofhabit; andthisconception ofartisnotlimitedtostrainsofmusicortheformsofplasticart,butpervades allnatureandhasawidekindredintheworld. TheRepublicofPlato,likethe AthensofPericles,hasanartisticaswellasapoliticalside.
 
 There is hardly any mention in Plato of the creative arts; only in two or three passages does he even allude to them (Rep.; Soph.). He is not lost in rapture atthegreatworksofPhidias,theParthenon, thePropylea,thestatuesofZeus orAthene. Hewouldprobablyhaveregardedanyabstracttruthofnumberor figure as higher than the greatest of them. Yet it is hard to suppose that some influence, such as he hopes to inspire in youth, did not pass into his own mindfromtheworksofartwhichhesawaroundhim. Wearelivinguponthe fragments of them, and find in a few broken stones the standard of truth and beauty. ButinPlatothisfeelinghasnoexpression;henowheresaysthatbeauty is the object of art; he seems to deny that wisdom can take an external form (Phaedrus);hedoesnotdistinguishthefinefromthemechanicalarts. Whether orno,likesomewriters,hefeltmorethanheexpressed,itisatanyrateremarkablethatthegreatestperfectionofthefineartsshouldcoincidewithanalmost entiresilenceaboutthem. Inoneverystrikingpassagehetellsusthatawork ofart,liketheState,isawhole;andthisconceptionofawholeandtheloveof thenewly-bornmathematicalsciencesmayberegarded,ifnotastheinspiring, atanyrateastheregulatingprinciplesofGreekart(Xen. Mem.;andSophist).
 
 4. Platomakesthetrueandsubtleremarkthatthephysicianhadbetternotbe inrobusthealth;andshouldhaveknownwhatillnessisinhisownperson. But http://www.idph.net IDPH 43 the judge ought to have had no similar experience of evil; he is to be a good manwho,havingpassedhisyouthininnocence,becameacquaintedlateinlife withthevicesofothers.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
