Certainly.
 
 Hewillthenproceedtoarguethatthisishewhogivestheseasonandtheyears, andisthe guardian ofallthatisin thevisibleworld, andinacertain waythe causeofallthingswhichheandhisfellowshavebeenaccustomedtobehold?
 
 Clearly,hesaid,hewouldfirstseethesunandthenreasonabouthim.
 
 Andwhenherememberedhisoldhabitation, andthewisdomofthedenand hisfellow-prisoners,doyounotsupposethathewouldfelicitatehimselfonthe change,andpitythem?
 
 Certainly,hewould.
 
 Andiftheywereinthehabitofconferringhonoursamongthemselvesonthose who were quickest to observe the passing shadows and to remark which of themwentbefore,andwhichfollowedafter,andwhichweretogether;andwho werethereforebestabletodrawconclusionsastothefuture,doyouthinkthat he would care for such honours and glories, or envy the possessors of them?
 
 WouldhenotsaywithHomer, ’Bettertobethepoorservantofapoormaster,’ andtoendureanything, ratherthanthinkastheydoandliveaftertheirmanner?
 
 Yes, he said, I think that he would rather suffer anything than entertain these falsenotionsandliveinthismiserablemanner.
 
 Imagine once more, I said, such an one coming suddenly out of the sun to be replaced in his old situation; would he not be certain to have his eyes full of darkness?
 
 Tobesure,hesaid.
 
 Andiftherewereacontest,andhehadtocompeteinmeasuringtheshadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was stillweak, andbeforehiseyeshadbecomesteady(andthetimewhichwould beneededtoacquirethisnewhabitofsightmightbeveryconsiderable),would henotberidiculous?Menwouldsayofhimthatuphewentanddownhecame without his eyes; and that it was better not even to think of ascending; and if anyonetriedtolooseanotherandleadhimuptothelight,letthemonlycatch theoffender,andtheywouldputhimtodeath.
 
 Noquestion,hesaid.
 
 Thisentireallegory,Isaid,youmaynowappend,dearGlaucon,totheprevious argument; the prison-house is the world of sight, the light of the fire is the http://www.idph.net 376 IDPH sun, and you will not misapprehend me if you interpret the journey upwards to be the ascent of the soul into the intellectual world according to my poor belief,which,atyourdesire,Ihaveexpressed–whetherrightlyorwronglyGod knows.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
