Intheearlydaysofhistyrannyhesmilesandbeamsuponeverybody;heisnota ’dominus,’no,nothe:hehasonlycometoputanendtodebtandthemonopoly ofland. Havinggotridofforeignenemies, hemakeshimselfnecessarytothe Statebyalwaysgoingtowar. Heisthusenabledtodepressthepoorbyheavy taxes,andsokeepthematwork;andhecangetridofbolderspiritsbyhanding themovertotheenemy. Thencomesunpopularity; someofhisoldassociates have the courage to oppose him. The consequence is, that he has to make a purgationoftheState; but,unlikethephysicianwhopurgesawaythebad,he mustgetridofthehigh-spirited,thewiseandthewealthy;forhehasnochoice between death and a life of shame and dishonour. And the more hated he is, themorehewillrequiretrustyguards;buthowwillheobtainthem? ’Theywill come flocking like birds–for pay.’ Will he not rather obtain them on the spot?
 
 Hewilltaketheslavesfromtheirownersandmakethemhisbody-guard;these arehistrustedfriends,whoadmireandlookuptohim.Arenotthetragicpoets wise who magnify and exalt the tyrant, and say that he is wise by association with the wise? And are not their praises of tyranny alone a sufficient reason whyweshouldexcludethemfromourState? Theymaygotoothercities,and gatherthemobaboutthemwithfinewords,andchangecommonwealthsinto tyrannies and democracies, receiving honours and rewards for their services; but the higher they and their friends ascend constitution hill, the more their honourwillfailandbecome’tooasthmatictomount.’ Toreturntothetyrant– How will he support that rare army of his? First, by robbing the temples of theirtreasures,whichwillenablehimtolightenthetaxes;thenhewilltakeall hisfather’sproperty,andspenditonhiscompanions,maleorfemale. Nowhis fatheristhedemus,andifthedemusgetsangry,andsaysthatagreathulking sonoughtnottobeaburdenonhisparents,andbidshimandhisriotouscrew begone,thenwilltheparentknowwhatamonsterhehasbeennurturing,and thatthesonwhomhewouldfainexpelistoostrongforhim. ’Youdonotmean to say that he will beat his father?’ Yes, he will, after having taken away his arms. ’Thenheisaparricideandacruel,unnaturalson.’ Andthepeoplehave jumped from the fear of slavery into slavery, out of the smoke into the fire.
 
 Thus liberty, when out of all order and reason, passes into the worst form of servitude...
 
 InthepreviousbooksPlatohasdescribedtheidealState;nowhereturnstothe perverted or declining forms, on which he had lightly touched at the end of BookIV.Thesehedescribesinasuccessionofparallelsbetweentheindividuals andtheStates,tracingtheoriginofeitherintheStateorindividualwhichhas preceded them. He begins by asking the point at which he digressed; and is thusledshortlytorecapitulatethesubstanceofthethreeformerbooks,which alsocontainaparallelofthephilosopherandtheState.
 
 Ofthefirstdeclinehegivesnointelligibleaccount;hewouldnothavelikedto http://www.idph.net 98 IDPH admitthemostprobablecausesofthefallofhisidealState,whichtouswould appear to be the impracticability of communism or the natural antagonism of therulingandsubjectclasses.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
