No one asked Peter to follow me. Nor did Matthias ask for silver or gold when he was chosen by chance to take the place of the guilty soul who was lost.

So stay here, because you are rightly punished. Guard the stolen money that made you brave against Charles. If it weren’t for the respect I have for certain things, I would say even harsher words. Your greed hurts the world, stepping on good people and helping bad ones rise.

The Evangelist and Pastors had the Church in mind when they spoke of a woman sitting on many waters, who was seen cheating with kings. This woman was born with seven heads and got power from ten horns, as long as she was pleasing to her husband through good behavior.

You have made yourselves gods of gold and silver. How are you different from idol worshipers, except that one god and a hundred others are worshiped?

Matthew was chosen as an Apostle to replace Judas.

According to Villani, Pope Nicholas III wanted to marry his niece to a nephew of Charles of Anjou, King of Sicily. The King refused, saying that even though the nephew wore red stockings, his family wasn’t good enough to join theirs, and his power wasn’t inherited. This angered the Pope, and with bribes from John of Procida, he encouraged a rebellion in Sicily that started a year after the Pope died, known as the “Sicilian Vespers” in 1282.

The Church of Rome was led by Nicholas, Boniface, and Clement.

The seven heads are thought to represent the Seven Virtues, and the ten horns the Ten Commandments.

Revelation 17:1-3 says: “One of the seven angels with the seven bowls came and said to me, ‘Come, I will show you the judgment of the great woman who sits on many waters. The kings of the earth have cheated with her, and the people of the earth have been drunk with the wine of her cheating.’ Then the angel took me to the wilderness, where I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast covered with blasphemous names. It had seven heads and ten horns.”

Revelation 17:12-13 says: “The ten horns you saw are ten kings who haven’t started ruling yet. They will give their power and strength to the beast.”

Ah, Constantine!
