Other studies are mentioned or figured out from Vita Nuova or the Comedy, about painting and music.

When he was nine years old, he met Beatrice Portinari, daughter of Folco Portinari. He fell in love with her “at first sight,” even though they probably never talked. After he turned 18, he saw her often and they sometimes said hello on the street, but he never really got to know her. He basically started the idea of “courtly love.” It’s hard to understand exactly what this love was, but it was very important for Italian culture. Because of this love, Dante helped create the Stil Novo style and inspired poets and writers to focus on the theme of Love (Amore), which wasn’t really emphasized before. Love for Beatrice (like Petrarch’s love for Laura) seemed to be the reason for writing poetry and living, along with political passions. In many poems, she is shown as almost like a goddess, always watching over him.

When Beatrice died in 1290, Dante looked for comfort in Latin books. The Convivio shows he read Boethius’s De consolatione philosophiae and Cicero’s De amicitia.

He focused on studying philosophy in religious schools like the Dominican school in Santa Maria Novella. He joined debates between the two main religious orders in Florence, the Franciscans and Dominicans. The Franciscans explained the ideas of mystics and Saint Bonaventure, while the Dominicans shared the teachings of Saint Thomas Aquinas.

This strong love for philosophy was later criticized by the character Beatrice in Purgatorio, the second book of the Comedy.

Florence and Politics

Dante, like most people in Florence then, was involved in the fight between the Guelphs and Ghibellines. He fought in the battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289) with the Florentine Guelphs against the Arezzo Ghibellines. In 1294, he was part of the group protecting Charles Martel d’Anjou (son of Charles of Anjou) while he was in Florence.

To help his political career, Dante became a pharmacist. He didn’t plan to work as one, but a law in 1295 said nobles who wanted a public job had to join one of the guilds. So Dante joined the apothecaries’ guild. This job fit him a bit because back then books were...
