196 http://www.paskvil.com/ Saying: “Say to them whatever you want.” And I began, since he wanted me to: “I hope your memory does not disappear from people’s minds in the world, but that it lasts for many years. Tell me who you are and where you come from. Don’t be afraid to show yourself to me because of some horrible punishment.”

“I was from Arezzo,” one man answered, “and Alberto of Siena had me burned. But what I died for is not why I am here.

“It’s true,” I said to him jokingly, “that I could fly up into the air, and someone who was full of pride but not very smart would have me show him how to do it. But because I was not Daedalus, he made me burn by someone he trusted like a son.

“But until the last part of hell, Bolgia of the ten, for alchemy, which I practiced in the world, Minos, who never makes mistakes, has condemned me.” 

And I said to the poets: “Have the people of Siena ever been so proud? Not even the French are as sure of themselves.” 

At this, another leper who had heard me replied: “Leaving out Stricca, 

361 The speaker is a man named Griffolino, an alchemist from Arezzo, who tricked Albert, the natural son of the Bishop of Siena. Because of this, he was burned; but was punished in the last Bolgia of the ten for alchemy.

362 Daedalus was the inventor of the Cretan labyrinth. Ovid says he made wings for himself and his son Icarus to escape by flying.

363 About the people of Siena, Forsyth says: “They are proud and flighty, wanting the judgment and smartness of their Florentine neighbors, who call a nail without a head a ‘chiodo Sanese.’”

364 The people mentioned here are made famous by Dante’s poem. Stricca was a lawyer from Siena. Niccolò was known for using cloves in cooking in a special garden where such things grow. Among others, Cacciad’Ascian wasted his vineyards and woods, and Abbaglia was clever at offering things.

Who knew the art of spending wisely, and Niccolò, who first used cloves in cooking. Taking out the group that wasted money, like Cacciad’Ascian with his vineyards and woods, and where Abbaglia was clever to offer things!
