Longfellow met Nathaniel Hawthorne, who later became his best friend. He stayed with a clergyman for a while before living on the third floor of what is now Maine Hall in 1823. He joined the Peucinian Society, a group of students who supported Federalist ideas. In his last year of college, Longfellow wrote to his father about his dreams: “I won’t hide it... I really want to be famous in literature, my whole heart is set on it, and all my thoughts focus on it... I almost believe that if I ever succeed, it will be by using my talents in the world of writing.”

He worked hard on his writing by sending poems and stories to newspapers and magazines. Between January 1824 and when he graduated in 1825, he published almost 40 small poems. About 24 of these appeared in a short-lived Boston magazine called The United States Literary Gazette.

After graduating in 1825, he was offered a job as a professor of modern languages at his college. There’s a story, maybe not true, that a trustee named Benjamin Orr was so impressed by Longfellow’s translation of Horace that he hired him on the condition he travel to Europe to study French, Spanish, and Italian. Whatever the reason, Longfellow started his trip to Europe in May 1826 on a ship called Cadmus. He stayed there for three years, and it cost his father about $2,604.24.

He visited France, Spain, Italy, Germany, went back to France, then England before returning to the U.S. in mid-August 1829. Longfellow was very sad to hear that his favorite sister Elizabeth had died of tuberculosis at age 20 that May while he was away.

On August 27, 1829, he wrote to Bowdoin’s president saying he was refusing the professor job because the $600 salary was too low for the work needed. The trustees then raised his pay to $800, plus $100 to be the college’s librarian, which only took one hour of work per day. While at the college, he wrote textbooks in French, Italian, and Spanish, and a travel book called Outre-Mer: A Pilgrimage Beyond the Sea. On September 14, 1831, he married Mary Storer Potter, a friend from childhood in Portland. They lived in Brunswick, but they weren’t very happy there.
