Dante fought in the front line of the Guelph cavalry at the battle of Campaldino on June 11, 1289. This win led to changes in Florence’s government. To be involved in public life, people had to join a guild. So, Dante joined the guild of doctors and apothecaries. In the years after, his name often appears as someone who spoke or voted in the city’s councils.

When Dante was 12, in 1277, he was promised in marriage to Gemma di Manetto Donati, the daughter of Messer Manetto Donati. Getting engaged this young was normal back then and included a formal ceremony with contracts signed by a notary. But Dante had already fallen in love with another girl, Beatrice Portinari (also called Bice). Years after marrying Gemma, he met Beatrice again. He started writing poems and sonnets about Beatrice but never mentioned his wife Gemma in his poems.

Dante had several children with Gemma. Like many famous people, some others later said they were Dante’s children too. But it’s likely that Jacopo, Pietro, Giovanni, Gabrielle Alighieri, and Antonia were really his kids. Antonia became a nun and took the name Sister Beatrice.

Not much is known about Dante’s education, but it’s thought he studied at home. We do know he studied Tuscan poetry at a time when the Sicilian School, a cultural group from Sicily, was becoming popular in Tuscany. He also became interested in Occitan poetry by the troubadours and Latin poetry from ancient times, especially the works of Virgil.

During the “Dark Ages,” Italy was made up of many small states. Sicily was the biggest, ruled by the Angevins, and was very different from Tuscany in language, culture, and politics. Even so, Dante was probably a smart and curious thinker who cared about what was happening beyond his own region.

When Dante was 18, he met poets like Guido Cavalcanti, Lapo Gianni, Cino da Pistoia, and later Brunetto Latini. Together, they became leaders of the Dolce Stil Novo, or “The Sweet New Style,” a new way of writing poetry. Brunetto was important to Dante and was mentioned in Dante’s Divine Comedy. About fifty of Dante’s poems, known as Rime, are known today, and others appear in his later works Vita Nuova and Convivio.
