Dante went to Verona as a guest of Bartolomeo I della Scala, then moved to Sarzana in Liguria. Later, he is said to have lived in Lucca with Madame Gentucca, who made his stay comfortable (she was later kindly mentioned in Purgatorio, XXIV, 37). Some guesses say he was also in Paris between 1308 and 1310. Other less reliable stories say he went to Oxford.

In 1310, the Holy Roman Emperor Henry VII of Luxembourg marched 5,000 soldiers into Italy. Dante saw him as a new Charlemagne who would bring back the power of the Holy Roman Emperor and take Florence from the Black Guelphs. He wrote letters to Henry and other Italian leaders, telling them to destroy the Black Guelphs. Mixing religion and his own problems, he asked God to punish his city, naming some of his personal enemies. During this time, he wrote the first two books of the Divine Comedy.

In Florence, Baldo d’Aguglione pardoned most of the White Guelphs who were in exile and let them return. But Dante had gone too far in his angry letters to Henry, so he was not allowed back.

In 1312, Henry attacked Florence and defeated the Black Guelphs, but there’s no proof Dante was involved. Some say he refused to help a foreigner attack his city; others think he was disliked by the White Guelphs too, so they erased any signs he had been there. In 1313, Henry died, and with him went Dante’s hope of returning to Florence. Dante went back to Verona, where Cangrande I della Scala let him live safely and probably comfortably. Cangrande was mentioned in Dante’s Paradise (Paradiso, XVII, 76).

In 1315, Florence was forced by Uguccione della Faggiuola, the military leader, to allow exiles, including Dante, to come back. But Florence made them pay money and do public penance. Dante refused and stayed in exile.

When Uguccione beat Florence, Dante’s death sentence was changed to house arrest if he promised never to enter the city again. Dante refused to go. His death sentence stayed and was even passed on to his sons.

Dante still hoped late in life that he might be invited back to Florence with honor. For him, exile was almost like death, taking away much of his identity.

But it never happened. In 1318, Prince Guido Novello da Polenta invited Dante to Ravenna, and he accepted. He finished the Paradiso there.
