The people (further continued) a multitude of men who don’t know one another, crammed good government than on the resources a great territory together at the seat of the central administration, talent is furnishes.
 
 buried, virtue unknown and vice unpunished. The leaders, I would add that we have known states that •were so conoverwhelmed with business, don’t see anything for them- stituted that the need to make conquests entered into their selves; the state is governed by bureaucrats. Finally, the very constitution, and •had to expand ceaselessly merely measures that have to be taken to maintain the general in order to survive. Perhaps they congratulated themselves authority, which all these distant officials wish to evade or greatly on this fortunate necessity; yet what it marked out abuse, absorb all the governmental energy, so that there’s for them were the limits of their greatness and the inevitable none left for the happiness of the people, and barely enough moment of their fall.
 
 to defend it when need arises. That’s what happens when a body is too big for its constitution: it cracks, and falls crushed under its own weight. 10. The people (further continued) On the other hand, ·it’s bad for a state to be too small·.
 
 A state needs a secure base if it is to be stable—not shaken A body politic can be measured by the extent of its territory to pieces by •the shocks that are bound to come its way or or by the number of its people; and the relation between by •the efforts it will be forced to make to maintain itself. All these two needs to be right if a state is to be really great. The populations have a kind of centrifugal force by which they men make the state, and the territory sustains the men; so •continually act against one another, and •tend to enlarge the right relation is this: themselves at their neighbours’ expense—like Descartes’s the land should suffice to maintain the inhabitants, vortices! Thus the weak run the risk of being soon swallowed and there should be as many inhabitants as the land up; and it is almost impossible for any one ·state· to survive can feed.
 
 except by putting itself in a sort of equilibrium with all ·the That’s the proportion that provides the maximum strength others· so that the pressure on all sides is about equal. of a given number of people. If there’s too much land, it So you can see that there are reasons for contraction will be troublesome to protect, inadequately cultivated, and and reasons for expansion; and it’s no small part of the over-productive; it will give rise to defensive wars; if there statesman’s skill to balance out the two sides in the way that isn’t enough land, the state has to depend on its neighbours is best for the preservation of the state. It can be said that to meet some of its needs; this will give rise to offensive the reasons for expansion, being merely external and wars. Any population whose geographical situation forces it relative, to choose between commerce and war is intrinsically weak: should be subordinate to it depends on its neighbours, depends on outcomes; its the reasons for contraction, which are internal and existence will be uncertain and short. It either conquers absolute. others and changes its ·geographical· situation, or it is A strong and healthy constitution is the first thing to look conquered and becomes nothing. Only insignificance or for; and it is better to count on the vigour that comes from greatness can keep it free.
 
 24 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 210.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
