The right of the strongest •voluntarily, and the family itself is then maintained only by agreement. This reasoning of Caligula’s is on a par with that of This common liberty is an upshot of the nature of man. Hobbes and Grotius. Aristotle, before any of them, had His first law is to provide for his own preservation, his first said that men are not naturally equal because some are born cares are those he owes to himself; and as soon as he can for slavery and others for command.
 
 think for himself he is the sole judge of the right way to take Aristotlewasright; buthemistooktheeffectforthecause.
 
 care of himself, which makes him his own master. Every man born in slavery is born for slavery—nothing is You could call the family the prime model of political morecertainthanthat. Slavesloseeverythingintheirchains, societies: the ruler corresponds to the father, and the people eventhedesiretoescapefromthem: theylovetheirservitude, to the children; and all of them—·ruler, people, father, as Ulysses’ comrades loved their brutish condition ·when the children·—because they were born free and equal don’t give goddess Circe turned them into pigs·. So if there are slaves up their liberty without getting something in return. The by nature, that’s because there have been slaves against whole difference is that •in the family the father’s care for nature. Force made the first slaves, and their cowardice kept his children is repaid by his love for them, whereas •in the them as slaves.
 
 state the ruler’s care for the people under him is repaid not I have said nothing about King Adam; or about Emperor by love for them (which he doesn’t have!) but by the pleasure Noah, the father of three great monarchs who shared out of being in charge. the universe (like Saturn’s children, whom some scholars Grotius denies that all human power is established in have recognised in them). [In Genesis 9 it is said that after the favourofthegoverned,andcitesslaveryasacounterexample. flood Noah’s three sons ruled the world.] I hope to be given credit His usual method of reasoning is to establish •right by for my moderation: as a direct descendant of one of these •fact [meaning: ...‘todrawconclusionsaboutwhatshouldbethecase princes—perhaps of the eldest branch—I don’t know that a from premises about what is the case’]. Not the most logical of verification of titles wouldn’t show me to be the legitimate argument-patterns, but it’s one that is very favourable to king of the human race! Anyway, Adam was undeniably tyrants. sovereign of the world, as Robinson Crusoe was of his island, ....Throughout his book, Grotius seems to favour—as as long as he was its only inhabitant; and this empire had does Hobbes—the thesis that the human species is divided the advantage that the monarch, safe on his throne, had into so many herds of cattle, each with a ruler who keeps nothing to fear from rebellions, wars, or conspirators.
 
 guard over them for the purpose of devouring them.
 
 Philo tells us that the Emperor Caligula reasoned thus: 3. The right of the strongest As a shepherd has a higher nature than his flock does, so also the shepherds of men, i.e. their rulers, have a The strongest is never strong enough to be always the master higher nature than do the peoples under them; unless he transforms •strength into •right, and •obedience from which he inferred, reasonably enough, that either kings into •duty. Hence ‘the right of the strongest’—a phrase that were gods or men were beasts. one might think is meant ironically, but is actually laid down 2 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 14.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
