Aristocracy 5. Aristocracy advantage that in it the government’s members are chosen.
 
 In popular ·= democratic· government, all the citizens are We have here two quite distinct moral persons, (b) the gov- born magistrates; but in aristocracy the role of magistrate is ernment and (a) the sovereign. So there are two general wills, confined to a few, who are elected to that position.14 By this (a) one general in relation to all the citizens, (b) the other only means uprightness, understanding, experience and all other for the members of the administration. Thus, although the claims to pre-eminence and public esteem become further government can regulate its internal workings as it pleases, guarantees of wise government.
 
 it can speak to the people only in the name of the sovereign, Moreover, •assemblies are more easily held, •affairs are i.e. of the people itself. This fact should not be forgotten.
 
 discussed better and done with more order and diligence, The first societies were governed aristocratically. The and •the state’s credibility in the eyes of other states is better heads of families consulted with one another on public maintained, by venerable senators than by a multitude that affairs. Theyounghadnoproblemgivingwaytotheauthority is unknown or despised.
 
 of experience. [Rousseau points out that many labels for In brief, the best and most natural arrangement is for the political leaders began as words referring to age, for example wisest to govern the multitude, when it is assured that they ‘senator’. Then:] The savages of North America govern willgovernforitsprofitandnotfortheirown. Don’tuselessly themselves in this way even now, and their government add to the wheels and springs of the government mechanism, is admirable.
 
 getting thousands of men to do what a hundred picked men But to the extent that inequalities produced by the so- can do better. [Rousseau’s next sentence is awkward and cial set-up came to predominate over natural inequality, unclear. Its gist is that with a smallish government there riches or power were put before age, and aristocracy became will be a tendency for its interests to deflect its activities, so elective. Finally, when the father’s power was inherited by that some of the executive power will come from that source his offspring, along with his goods, this gave the whole family rather than from the wishes of the sovereign, i.e. the will of the status of ‘nobles’, thus making government hereditary— the entire population.] and there came to be 20-year-old senators!
 
 In what circumstances is aristocracy the best form of Therearethenthreesortsofaristocracy—natural,elective government? Well, the state shouldn’t be so small, or the and hereditary. The first is only for simple peoples; the third people so simple and upright, that the execution of the laws is the worst of all governments; the second is the best, and follows immediately from the public will, as it would in a is aristocracy properly so-called. good democracy. Nor should the nation be so large that its ·Comparing aristocracy with democracy or popular gov- rulers—scattered in order to govern it—are able to play the ernment·: Besides the advantage that comes from keeping sovereign each in his own department, and make themselves thetwopowersdistinctfromoneanother, aristocracyhasthe independent as a step towards becoming masters.
 
 14 It matters greatly to have laws governing the form of the election of magistrates; for if that is left at the discretion of the prince the government will slide into being an hereditary aristocracy, as happened in the republics of Venice and Berne. Thus Venice collapsed as a state, long ago; but the republicofBerneismaintainedthroughitssenate’sgreatwisdom;itisanexception—onethatisveryhonourableandverydangerous!
 
 35 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 36.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
