Classifying governments enough allowance for ·the possibility of good· luck; and •that (B) Or the sovereign may restrict the government to a ·with too many people involved· an opportunity may be let small number of citizens, so that the private citizens outslip so that all this deliberation results in the loss of the goal number magistrates; and this is called aristocracy.
 
 that the deliberation was about. (C) Or the sovereign may concentrate the whole governI have just shown that the government becomes slack in ment in the hands of a single magistrate from whom all proportion to any increase in the number of magistrates; and the others—·i.e. all the other governmental officials·—hold I showed earlier [page30] that the more people there are, the their power. This third form is the most usual, and is called greater the repressive force needs to be. From this it follows monarchy, or royal government.
 
 that the ratio of magistrates to the government should vary Within each of these forms, or at least each of the first inversely to the ratio of the subjects to the sovereign; which two, there can be differences of degree, including very wide means that the larger the state is the more the government ones. A democracy, for example, may include all the people should shrink, so that the number of the rulers diminish in or be restricted to half of them. An aristocracy, in its turn, proportion to the increase in the population. may be restricted indefinitely from half the people down to the smallest possible number. And even royalty is open to a I am here speaking of the government’s relative strength, certain amount of sharing out: Sparta always had two kings, not of its legitimacy. The more numerous the magistracy, the as its constitution provided; and the Roman Empire had as nearer the corporate will comes to the general will; whereas many as eight emperors at once, without any splitting up of under a single magistrate this same corporate will is, as I the Empire itself. Thus, each form of government passes into said, nothing but a particular will. Thus, what is lost on one the next at a certain point, and it emerges that those three side may be gained on the other, and the art of the legislator main headings cover as many possible forms of government is to know how to fix the point at which the government’s as the state has citizens.
 
 •force and its •will, which are always in inverse proportion, There are even more: a government can be subdivided intersect in the relation that is best for the state.
 
 along certain lines into parts that may be administered in different ways from one another, so the combination of the 3. Classifying governments three forms may result in a multitude of mixed forms....
 
 There have always been fights about what the best form The preceding chapter showed why we distinguish the vari- of government is, ignoring the fact each form is in some ous kinds or forms of government in terms of how many cases the best and in others the worst.
 
 members they have; now we have to discover how this If in the different states the number of supreme magisdivision is made. tratesoughttobeininverseratiotothesizeofthepopulation, it follows immediately that democratic government suits (A) The sovereign may put the government in the hands small states, aristocratic government those of middle size, of the whole people or of a majority of them, so that among and monarchy great ones. But there are countless possible the citizens the magistrates outnumber the merely private individuals. This form of government is called democracy. circumstances that would provide exceptions.
 
 33 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 34.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
