The people (continued) for war. At first he wanted to make Germans, Englishmen, you go, and always at the expense of the unfortunate people!
 
 when he ought to have started by making Russians; he Lastofallcomesthesupremeadministration, whichswamps blocked his subjects from ever becoming what they could alltherest. Thesecostsareacontinualdrainonthesubjects; have been, by persuading them that they were what they are andfarfrombeingbettergovernedbyallthesedifferentlevels not. This was like a French teacher who shapes his pupil to of government they’re much worse governed than they would be an infant prodigy, and for the rest of his life to be nothing. be if they had only a single authority over them. And with all The empire of Russia will try to conquer Europe, and will this going on, there are hardly any resources remaining to itself be conquered. The Tatars, its subjects or neighbours, meet emergencies; and whenever these are needed the state will become its masters and ours, by a revolution that seems is on the brink of destruction.
 
 to me inevitable. Indeed, all the kings of Europe are working (2) ·The effectiveness of government:· When part of a together to speed it along. nation is far distant from the seat of government, this has bad effects on both sides. On the one hand, the government is weaker and slower 9. The people (continued) •in law-enforcement there, Just as nature has set limits to the size of a well-made •in preventing people from ill-treating one another man, and outside those limits makes only giants and dwarfs, there, so also for the constitution of a state to be at its best, •in correcting abuses there, there are upper and lower bounds to the size of the state • guarding against seditious undertakings begun there; if it isn’t to be too large for good government or too small and on the other hand the populace of that region has less for self-maintenance. Every body politic has a maximum affection for strength that it can’t exceed, and that it won’t even reach •its rulers, whom it never sees, that maximum if it becomes too large. Every extension of the •its country, which to its eyes seems like the world, social tie slackens it; and generally speaking a small state is and stronger in proportion than a great one. There are countless •its fellow-citizens, most of whom are unknown to it.
 
 reasons why this is so. ·I shall present one of them, and The same laws can’t suit so many diverse provinces with then a cluster of others·. different mœurs [see Glossary] and utterly different climates, (1) ·The burden of government:· Long distances make differing also in what kind of government they can put up administration more difficult, just as a weight becomes with. ‘·Well, then, let the government have different laws for heavier at the end of a longer lever. The further up the different provinces.’ No, because· different laws lead only hierarchy you go, the more burdensome the administrations to trouble and confusion among populations which—living is. First, each •city has its own ·government·, which is under the same rulers and in constant communication with paid for by the people; so does each •district, still paid one another—intermingle and intermarry, and when they for by the people; then each •province, then the •great come under the sway of new customs don’t know whether governments....and so on, always costing more the higher they can call their family fortune their own. Among such 23 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 210.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
