Civic religion What the pagans had feared took place. Then everything the same thing; but was re-arranged: the humble Christians changed their way •this title has made them ministers of the Church of talking, and soon this so-called kingdom of •the other rather than its masters; world turned, under a visible leader, into the most violent •they have acquired the power to maintain the church despotism in •this world. rather than to change it; However, as there was always •a prince and civil laws ·as •they aren’t its legislators, but only its princes.
 
 well as •a church·, this double power created a conflict of Wherever the clergy is a corporate body,27 it is master and jurisdiction that made it impossible for Christian states to be legislator in its own country. There are thus two powers, two governed well; and men never managed to discover whether sovereigns, in England and in Russia, as well as elsewhere.
 
 they were obliged to obey the master or the priest. [Rousseaushouldn’thavesaid‘twosovereigns’. WhathehasbeenmainSeveral peoples, however, even in Europe and its neigh- taining is that England has (i) a sovereign and (ii) a government, and bourhood, have tried to preserve or restore the old system— that(i)thebodyoftheAnglicanclergyisthesovereign,while(ii)theking tried and failed, because the spirit of Christianity has won isthegovernment.] every time. The sacred cult has always remained or again The philosopher Hobbes is the only Christian writer who become independent of the sovereign and not essentially has seen the evil and seen how to remedy it, and has dared linked with the body of the state. Mahomet held very sound to propose bring the two heads of the eagle together again, and sensible views, and made a good job of linking his restoring the total political unity without which no state political system together; and as long as the caliphs who or government will ever be rightly constituted. But he succeeded him preserved the form of his government, that should have seen that Christianity’s dominating spirit is government had the good feature of being one—·a unitary incompatible with his system, and that the priests’ side of government, not split between secular and religious powers·. the divide would always be stronger than the state’s. What But when the Arabs became prosperous, lettered, civilised, hasdrawndownhatredonhispoliticaltheoryisnotsomuch slack and cowardly, they were conquered by barbarians, and what is false and terrible in it as what is just and true....
 
 the division between the two powers started up again. It is I believe that if the study of history were developed from less conspicuous among the Mahometans than among the this point of view, it would be easy to refute the opinion of Christians, but the Mahometans do have it, especially in the Bayle sect of Ali, and in some states such as Persia it is continually that no religion is useful to the body politic, making itself felt. and also the opposing opinion of Warburton Among us ·Europeans·, the kings of England have been that Christianity is the body politic’s strongest supmade heads of the Church, and the Czars have done much port.
 
 27 It should be noted that what binds the clergy together to constitute a body is not a formal assembly but rather the communion of churches.
 
 Communion and excommunication are the clergy’s social compact, a compact that will always make them masters of peoples and kings. All priests whogiveortakecommuniontogetherarefellow-citizens,eveniftheycomefromoppositeendsoftheearth. Thisinventionisapoliticalmasterpiece; paganpriestshavenothinglikeit,whichiswhytheyhavethereforeneverconstitutedaclericalcorporatebody.
 
 69 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
