Government in general orders it gives to the (c) people; and for the state to be will...., the greater the repressive force should be. If the properly balanced there must be a steady relationship be- government is to be a good one, it should be proportionately tween the a-to-b relation and the b-to-c relation. If any stronger as the population is greater.
 
 of these three terms were altered, the steady relationship [Two remarks: (i) The ellipsis marks the place where Rousseau equates therelation would instantly be destroyed. [Rousseauputsthatintermsofthe particularwills—thegeneralwill breakdown of a mathematical ratio; that is part of the detour discussed withtherelation intheprecedingnote.] If the (a) sovereign tries to govern, or the mœurs—lois [loisarelaws;formœursseeGlossary].
 
 (b) magistrate tries to give laws, or if the (c) subjects refuse to (ii) What Rousseau wrote means ‘The smaller the ratio of particular obey, disorder takes the place of regularity, force and will no wills....’,butthatmusthavebeenaslip.] longer act together, and the state is dissolved and falls into On the other hand, the bigger the state the more temptadespotism or anarchy. Lastly...., there is also only one good tions and chances the holders of the public authority have government possible for a state; but as the relations within a for abusing their power; so the greater the force government people can change in countless ways, different governments should have for keeping the people in hand, the greater the may be good for different peoples or even for a single people force the sovereign should have keeping the government in at different times. hand. I’m not talking about absolute amount-of-force, but Trying to give some idea of the various relations that may of the comparative amounts of force of the different parts of hold between these two terms (a) and (c), I shall take as an the state.
 
 example the numerical size of a population, which is the This conceptual scheme of ratios of (a) the sovereign to most easily expressible. (b) the prince (·or government·) and of the prince to (c) the Suppose the state is composed of ten thousand citizens. peopleisnotanarbitraryidea,butaninevitableconsequence The sovereign can only be considered collectively and as of the nature of the body politic.... One thing we learn from a body; but each member, in his role as a subject, is it is that there is no single unique and absolute form of considered individually; so the sovereign is to the subject government, but rather as many governments differing in as ten thousand to one, meaning that each member of nature as there are states differing in size.
 
 the state has as his share only a ten-thousandth part of In discussing this matter in terms of population-size, I the sovereign authority, although he is wholly under that am merely taking an example; the ratios that I am basically authority’s control. If the population numbers a hundred talking about are not measured by the number of men, but thousand, the condition of the subjects doesn’t change; each quite generally by the amount of action, which is a combinaof them is under the whole authority of the laws, while his tion of a multitude of causes. As for my briefly borrowing vote....now has only a tenth as much influence in drawing terms from mathematics, let me say that I’m well aware that them up. Thus, the people-to-sovereign ratio increases with moral quantities don’t allow of geometrical precision.
 
 the number of the citizens, from which this follows: The [At this point, Rousseau presents another mathematilarger the state, the less the liberty.... cal flourish, and then pushes it aside:] Without wrestling Now, the larger the ratio of particular wills to the general with this proliferation of ·technical· terms, let us settle 30 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 32.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
