Abuse and degeneration of government from the few to the many, it could be said to be relaxing; but contract, but the state does; I mean that the great big state this reverse sequence is impossible. isdissolved,andanotherstateisformedwithinit,•composed Indeed, a government won’t change its form unless its solely of the members of the government and •relating to unwound spring leaves it too weak to keep the form that the rest of the people as their master and tyrant. Thus, the it has. If a government relaxed while extending its sphere, moment the government usurps the sovereignty, the social its force would become absolutely nil, and it would be even compact is broken, and all private citizens recover by right further from being able to survive. So ·when this starts to their natural liberty; they are forced to obey, but they have happen· it is necessary to go back and wind up the spring to no obligation to do so.
 
 get rid of the slack; otherwise the state that it sustains will (2) When the members of the government individually come to grief. usurp the power they should exercise only as a body. This is [Intheprecedingtwoparagraphs,Rousseauhasspokenofagovern- as great an infraction of the laws, and results in even greater ment’s(i)contractingorrelaxing(=‘expanding’),andthenofits(ii)being disorders. When this happens there are as many princes as wound up tight or coming unwound. He uses the same French verbs there are magistrates, so to speak, and the state, which is for each of these contrasts. Are these meant to be a single contrast? as divided as the government is, either perishes or changes Well,inthefirstcontrastagovernmentseresserrebybecomingsmaller, its form.
 
 involving fewer people, whereas in the second contrast you resserre a When the state is dissolved, the abuse of government, government by winding up its spring. Those are not obviously equiva- whatever it is, bears the common name of ‘anarchy’...., lent,butreadon.] democracy degenerates into ochlocracy [= ‘mob rule’], and The dissolution of the state can come about in either of aristocracy degenerates into oligarchy. I would add that two ways. royalty degenerates into tyranny, but ‘tyranny’ is ambiguous (1) When the prince stops governing the state in accor- and needs explanation.
 
 dance with the laws, and usurps the sovereign power. Then In the everyday sense of the word, a tyrant is a king something remarkable happens: the government doesn’t who governs with the help of violence and without regard was achieved by the establishment of the system of tribunes (Machiavelli has proved this); only then was there a true government and a veritable democracy. Infact,thepopulacewasthennotonlysovereign,butalsomagistrateandjudge;thesenatewasonlyasubordinatetribunal,tomoderate thegovernmentandgiveitfocus;andeventheconsuls—thoughtheywereofthenobility,chiefmagistrates,absolutegeneralsinwar—wereinRome itselfnomorethanthepopulace’schairmen [Frenchprésidents]. Fromthenonwardsthegovernmentfolloweditsnaturaltendency,incliningstrongly towardsaristocracy. Thenobilityabolisheditself,asitwere,andthearistocracywasfoundnolonger inthebodyofthehereditarynobility,asatVeniceandGenoa,but inthebodyofthesenate,whichwascomposedofnoblesandcommoners,andeven inthebodyoftribuneswhentheybegantousurpanactivefunction.
 
 (Don’t let the labels get in the way of your thinking about the facts. When the people has rulers who govern for it, the government is an aristocracy, whateverlabelisputonitsmembers.) Theabuseofaristocracyledtothecivilwarsandthetriumvirate. Sulla,JuliusCaesarandAugustusbecame infactrealmonarchs; andfinally,underthedespotismofTiberiusthestatewasdissolved. SoRomanhistorydoesn’tinvalidatetheprincipleIhave laiddown;itconfirmsit!
 
 45 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 312.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
