Civic religion identifying gods of one nation with gods of another. As if without parallel till the coming of Christianity.26 Moloch, Saturn, and Chronos could be the same god! As if Thus, because every religion was attached solely to the the Phoenician Baal, the Greek Zeus, and the Latin Jupiter laws of the state that prescribed it, the only way to convert could be the same! As if there could be any common residue a people was to enslave it, and the only missionaries there in imaginary beings with different names! couldbewereconquerors.... Sofarfrommenfightingforthe You may ask: ‘Why were there no wars of religion in the gods, the gods (as in Homer) fought for men; each man asked pagan world, where each state had its own form of worship his god for victory, and paid for it with new altars. Before [culte] and its own gods?’ My reply is that just because the Romans took a place, they called on its gods to abandon each state had its own form of worship as well as its own it; and when they left the Tarentines with their outraged government, no state distinguished its gods from its laws. gods, they regarded those gods as subject to their own and Political war was also theological war; the gods had, so to forced to do them homage. They left the vanquished their speak,provincesthatwerefixedbytheboundariesofnations. gods as they left them their laws. A wreath to the Jupiter of The god of one people had no right over other peoples. The the Capitol was often the only tribute they imposed.
 
 gods of the pagans were not jealous gods [=‘didn’tdemandthat Finally, when the Romans in spreading their empire had their followers have nothing to do with any other gods’]; they shared also spread their forms of worship and their gods, and had the world among themselves. Even Moses and the Hebrews often adopted for themselves the gods of the vanquished, sometimes adopted that point of view by speaking of ‘the granting the rights of the city to both lots of gods, the peoples God of Israel’. It’s true that they regarded as powerless the of that vast empire very gradually came to have multitudes gods of the Canaanites, a proscribed people condemned to of gods and forms of worship, everywhere almost the same; destruction, whose place they were to take; but look at how and that’s how it came about that paganism throughout the they spoke of the divinities of the neighbouring peoples they known world finally came to be a single religion.
 
 were forbidden to attack! ‘Isn’t the territory belonging to This was the situation when Jesus came to set up on your god Chemosh lawfully yours?’ said Jephthah to the earth a spiritual kingdom, which, by separating the theologiAmmonites. ‘We have the same title to the lands that our cal from the political system, destroyed the unity of the state, conquering God has made his own’ (Judges 11:24).... Here, and caused the internal divisions that have never ceased to I think, there is a recognition that the rights of Chemosh are trouble Christian peoples. This new idea of a kingdom of ‘the on a par with those of the God of Israel. other world’ could never have occurred to pagans, so they When the Jews were subjects of the Kings of Babylon and always regarded the Christians as really rebels, who while then of the Kings of Syria, they still obstinately refused to pretending to be submissive were only waiting for the chance recognise any god but their own; this refusal was regarded tobecomeindependentandtobeincharge,cunninglyseizing as rebellion against their conqueror, and drew down on the authority they pretended in their weakness to respect.
 
 them the persecutions we read of in their history, which are This was the cause of the persecutions.
 
 26 Itisutterlyclearthattheso-called’Sacredwar’againstthePhocianswasnotawarofreligion. Itsaimwastopunishactsofsacrilege,nottoconquer unbelievers.
 
 68 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
