No one form of government...
 
 little; whereas in fact everyone there eats little. Again that the wheat of Barbary, in other respects inferior to that the consumption level would differ in the different of France, yields much more flour, and that France’s wheat provinces, according to the fertility of their land, in turn yields more than wheat in northern countries; from whereas in fact the same frugality with food and drink which it’s a fair inference that this gradation ·in wheat-yield· occurs throughout the kingdom. [Plus some remarks holdsgenerally,fromequatortopole,isfoundgenerally. Well, about diet in relation to skin-colour.] now, isn’t it an obvious disadvantage for an equal ·amount The nearer you get to the equator, the less people live on. of· product to contain less nourishment?
 
 Meat they hardly touch; rice, maize, couscous, millet and A further difference ·between hot and cold countries· cassava are their standard diet. There are millions of men arises from the previous differences and also strengthens in the Indies whose food-intake costs less than a halfpenny them, namely: a day. Even in Europe we see considerable differences of Hot countries have less need of inhabitants than cold appetitebetweennorthernandsouthernpeoples: aSpaniard ones do, and can support more of them.
 
 will live for a week on a German’s dinner.... There is thus a double surplus—·more product, fewer Luxury in clothes shows similar differences. In climates consumers·—which is all to the advantage of despotism.
 
 where the seasons are fast and big, men have better and (i) For any fixed number of inhabitants, the more they are simpler clothes; in lands where they dress only for adorn- geographically spread out the harder it becomes for them to ment, they care more about what is striking than about revolt, because ·would-be revolutionaries· can’t act together what is useful; clothes themselves are then a luxury. In quickly or secretly: the government can easily unmask their Naples you can see....men in gold-embroidered vests and activities ·thus defeating secrecy·, and cut communications no leg-coverings. It is the same with buildings; magnificence ·thus defeating co-ordination among the revolutionary cells·.
 
 is all that matters when there’s nothing to fear from the air. On the other hand, (ii) the more geographically concentrated In Paris and London, you want to be lodged warmly and a population is, the harder it is for the government to usurp comfortably; Madrid has superb salons but no windows that the sovereign’s place: the people’s leaders can deliberate as close, and you go to bed in a mere hole. safely in their houses as the prince can in council, and the In hot countries foods are much more substantial and crowd gathers as rapidly in the town squares as the prince’s more tasty, and this third difference is bound to have an troops do in their barracks.
 
 influence on the second. [He means: an influence on how much [Although his terminology differs a little, Rousseau is presenting (i) and people eat. He is evidently leaving clothes out of his enumeration of (ii) as two sides of a single coin: what the geographical spread defeats, differences.] Why are so many vegetables eaten in Italy? and the geographical concentration encourages, is action by the people Becausetheretheyaregood,nutritiousandexcellentintaste. (thepeople’sleaders,theplannersofrevolt,thewould-berevolutionaries) In France, where vegetables are nourished only on water, against attempts by the government to usurp the powers of sovereignty, they don’t provide nourishment and are hardly listed on thusbecomingdespotic.] menus. They don’t take up less ground ·than in the south·, So a tyrannical government does best when acting at great and are at least as much trouble to grow. It is a proved fact distances. With the help of the rallying-points it establishes, 42 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 39.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
