The magistracy is the set of all such officials, thought not events but enduring states of affairs like the conventions of as a single body.
 
 governingthemeaningsofwords,thestandardsofpoliteness, mœurs: The mœurs of a people include their morality, their etc. So ‘convention’ is a wrong translation; and ‘agreement’ basic customs, their attitudes and expectations about how is right.
 
 peoplewillbehave, theirideasaboutwhatisdecent...andso alienate: To alienate something that you own is to bring it on. This word—rhyming approximately with ‘worse’—is left about that you no longer own it; in brief, to give it away or untranslated because there’s no good English equivalent to sell it, it. English speakers sometimes use it, for the sort of reason they have for sometimes using Schadenfreude.
 
 arbitrary: It means ‘brought into existence by the decision of some person(s)’. It’s no part of the meaning here (as it is moral person: Something that isn’t literally person but is today) that the decision was frivolous or groundless.
 
 being regarded as one for some theoretical purpose. See for censorship: This translates Rousseau’s censure. It doesn’t example pages 9 and 36.
 
 refer to censorship as we know it today; censure didn’t have populace: Rousseau repeatedly speaks of a ‘people’ in the that meaning until the 19th century. Rousseau’s topic is a singular,andwecandothatinEnglish(‘TheEnglish—whata role that certain officials had in some periods of the Roman strange people!’); but it many cases this way of using ‘people’ republic, namely as guardians of, and spokesmen for, the sounds strained and peculiar, and this version takes refuge people’s mœurs (see below). They could be thought of as an in ‘populace’. On page 4, for instance, that saves us from ‘In institutionalising of the ‘court of public opinion’. On page 67 every generation the people was the master...’.
 
 we see him stretching the original sense.
 
 compact, contract: These translate Rousseau’s pacte and prince: As was common in his day, Rousseau uses ‘prince’ contrat respectively. He seems to mean them as synonyms. to stand for the chief of the government. This needn’t be a person with the rank of Prince; it needn’t be a person at all, constitution: In this work a thing’s ‘constitution’ is the because it could be a committee.
 
 sum of facts about how something is constituted, how its parts hang together and work together (so the constitution sovereign: This translates souverain. As Rousseau makes of a state is nothing like a document). Items credited clear on page 7, he uses this term as a label for the person with ‘constitutions’ are organisms and political entities; the or group of persons holding supreme power in a state. In mention on page 66 of the constitution of a people seems a democracy, the whole people constitute a sovereign, and aberrant. individual citizens are members of the sovereign. In Books 3 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau and 4 ‘sovereign’ is used for the legislator (or legislature) as able’, rather more strongly than whatever it is that you and I distinct from the government = the executive.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
