Sovereignty is indivisible the basis of its •source, divide it according to its •object. If we track the other divisions in the same way, we They divide it into would find that whenever anyone takes sovereignty to be •force and will, divided there is a mistake: the rights that are taken as being •legislative power and executive power, part of sovereignty are really all subordinate, and always •rights of taxation, justice and war, presuppose the existence of supreme wills that they are •internal affairs and foreign relations. merely applying.
 
 Sometimes they run these sections together and sometimes This lack of exactness has thrown a cloud of obscurity they separate them; they turn the sovereign into a fantastic over the conclusions of writers on political right who have being composed of several connected pieces: it is as if they laid down principles on the basis of which to pass judgment were making man of several bodies, one with eyes, one with on the respective rights of kings and peoples. When I try to arms, another with feet, and each with nothing else! We’re say how much obscurity, words fail me! Everyone can see in told that the jugglers of Japan dismember a child before Grotius’s work (Book 1 chapters 3 and 4) how the learned the eyes of the spectators; then they throw the pieces into man and his translator, Barbeyrac, entangle and confuse the air one after another, and the child falls down alive and themselves with in their own sophistries, for fear of saying whole. The conjuring tricks of our political theorists are too little or too much of what they think, and so offending pretty much like that: having dismembered the body politic the interests they have to placate. Grotius, a refugee in by a huckster’s trick they then re-asssemble it...somehow! France, discontented with his own country [Holland], and wanting to pay court to Louis XIII, to whom his book is This error comes from a failure to think precisely about dedicated, will go to any lengths to strip the peoples of all the sovereign authority, regarding as different •parts of it their rights and clothe kings in them with every conceivable what are really just different •emanations from it.
 
 decoration. This would also have been much to the taste [Rousseauseemstomeanthattheyarejustdifferentactionsthatareperformedundertheauthorityofthesovereign. Indistinguishing(a)partsof of Barbeyrac, who dedicated his translation to George I of the sovereign authority from (b) actions performed not by the sovereign England. But unfortunately ·for him· the expulsion of James authoritybutbysubordinategovernmentalagencies,hemaybe II, which Barbeyrac called his ‘abdication’, compelled him distinguishingpartsofxfromactionsofx,or to be on his guard, to shuffle and switch positions, in order distinguishing the sovereign’s actions from those of subordinate to avoid making William ·of Orange, who succeeded James agencies.
 
 on the throne· a usurper. If these two writers had adopted In fact he seems to be thinking only of the second of these distinctions.
 
 the true principles, all ·their· difficulties would have been Read on.] Thus, for example, the acts of declaring war and removed, and they would have been always consistent; but making peace have been regarded as acts of sovereignty, but they’d have told the truth sadly, and they wouldn’t have they aren’t. None of them are laws; each of them simply applies a law to a particular case, involving a decision ·not been paying court to anyone except the people. Well, the about what the law is to be, but only· about how the law truth is no road to fortune, and the populace doesn’t give out ambassadorships, university chairs, or pensions.
 
 applies in this case. This will be clear when the idea attached to the word ‘law’ has been fixed.
 
 13 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 24.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
