Maintaining sovereign authority we think they are; they are made to ·seem to· be tight by •fixed the state’s constitution on one occasion by giving our weaknesses, our vices, our prejudices that confine them. its assent to a body of laws; or to have Low-grade souls have no belief in great men; vile slaves grin •set up a perpetual government, or to have mockingly at the name of liberty. •provided once for all for the election of magistrates.
 
 Let’s think about what can be done, remembering what There must also be fixed periodical assemblies that can’t has been done. I shan’t discuss the ancient Greek republics; be cancelled or postponed, so that on the proper day the but the Roman republic strikes me as having been a great populace is legitimately called together by law, without any state, and the town of Rome a great town. The last census need for a formal summoning. (This is additional to any reported that Rome had four hundred thousand citizens special assemblies that may be required in emergencies.) capable of bearing arms, and the last statement of the But apart from these assemblies authorised by their population of the Empire showed over four million citizens— date alone, every assembly of the people not summoned and that’s not including subject peoples, foreigners, women, by magistrates appointed for that purpose, in accordance children or slaves. with the prescribed forms, should be regarded as illegitimate, Frequent assembling of the vast population of this capital and all its acts as null and void, because the law has to be and its neighbourhood—what a labour that must have been! the source of the command to assemble.
 
 Yet the Roman people did assemble almost weekly and some- How often should these lawful assemblies occur? That times even more often. The populace exercised the rights depends on so many considerations that exact rules for it of sovereignty and also some of the rights of government. can’t be given. Still, one can say in general that the stronger It transacted some business and judged some cases; and a government is the more need there is for the sovereign to ·the members of· this whole population were in the public show itself often ·in assemblies of the people·.
 
 meeting-place as •magistrates almost as often as they were ‘This may be all right for a single town,’ you’ll want to there as •citizens. say, ‘but what if the state includes several towns? (i) Is the If we went back to the earliest history of nations, we sovereign authority to be divided? (ii) or concentrated in a would find that most of the ancient governments—even singletowntowhichalltherestaremadesubject?’ Neitherof those of monarchical form, such as the Macedonian and the those, I reply. (i) The sovereign authority is one and doesn’t Frankish—had similar councils. Be that as it may, the one have parts; so it can’t be divided without being destroyed.
 
 unquestionable fact that I have presented ·about assemblies (ii) And one town can’t legitimately be made subject to in Rome· is an answer to all difficulties. ‘Something exists, another, any more than one nation can; because the essence so it is possible’—that looks to me like good logic. of the body politic lies in the harmony of •obedience with •liberty, and the words ‘subject’ and ‘sovereign’ are precisely complementary, the concepts being united in the single word 13. How the sovereign authority is maintained ‘citizen’.
 
 (continued) I reply also that it’s always bad to unify several towns in It’s not enough for the assembled people to have a single city, and that anyone wanting to do this had better 47 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 314.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
