Monarchy But although aristocracy doesn’t demand all the virtues •the public force of the state, and needed by popular government, it demands others that are •the particular force of the government.
 
 all its own; for instance, moderation on the part of the rich All the springs of the machine are in the same hands, the and contentment on the part of the poor. ·Note that I am not whole moves towards the same end; there are no conflicting demanding the abolition of the rich/poor divide·, because it movements that could cancel one another out, and a small seems that thorough-going equality would be out of place; input of effort produces a large output of action—indeed they didn’t have it even at Sparta. we can’t imagine a kind of constitution with a better inputIf this form of government carries with it a certain in- output ratio. Archimedes, seated quietly on the bank and equality of fortune, that is a good thing because it lets the easily pulling a great vessel through the water ·with a long administration of public affairs be entrusted to those who lever·, represents for me a skilful monarch, governing vast are most able to give them their whole time, but not for states from his study, moving everything while seeming, Aristotle’ reason, namely that the rich should always be put himself, not to move.
 
 first. On the contrary, it matters that an opposite choice No government is more vigorous than this, and also should occasionally teach the people that men’s merits are a there’s no government in which the particular will holds weightier reason for preference than their wealth. more sway and more easily rules the other wills. It is indeed true that ‘the whole moves towards a single end’, but the end in question is not public happiness, and all the energy 6. Monarchy of this administration is constantly being used to harm the So far, we have considered the prince as a moral and col- state.
 
 lective person, unified by the force of the laws, and charged Kings want to be absolute, and the distant cry comes by the state with holding and exercising the executive power. to them ‘The best way to do that is to be loved by your Let us now consider this power when it is gathered into the people’. This is a fine maxim, and there’s even some truth hands of one natural person, one real man, who alone has in it; but unfortunately the court will always make fun of it.
 
 the right to exercise it in accordance with the laws. Such a The power that comes from a people’s love is no doubt the person is called a ‘monarch’ or ‘king’. greatest; but it is precarious and conditional [=‘vulnerableto Whereas in some forms of administration a collective changes in circumstances’], and princes will never rest content being represents an individual, in this one an individual with it. The best kings want to be so placed that they can represents a collective being; so that the moral unity that be wicked if they want to, without losing their mastery. A constitutes the prince is at the same time a physical unity, political sermoniser may tell them that, because the people’s and all the qualities that in the other case are laboriously strength is their own, their chief interest is that the people brought together •by the law are here •naturally united. should be •prosperous, •numerous and •formidable; but Thus one single motive power generates there’s no point in telling them this because they know very •the will of the people, well that it’s not true! Their first personal interest is that •the will of the prince, the people should be •weak, •wretched, and •unable to resist 36 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 36.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
