The sovereign 7. The sovereign But the body politic, i.e. the sovereign, owes its very existence to the sanctity of •the contract; so it can never This formula shows us that •the act of association involves a commit itself, even to another state, to do anything that two-way commitment between the public and the individuals conflicts with •that original act—e.g. to alienate any part of ·belonging to it·, and •that each individual, in making a con- itself, or to submit to another sovereign. ·I’m saying not that tract with himself (so to speak), acquires two commitments: the sovereign ought not to do such a thing, but that it can’t (a) as a member of the state he has a commitment to the do so·: violation of the act ·of contract-making· by which it sovereign, and (b) as a member of the sovereign [seeGlossary] exists would be self-annihilation; and nothing can be created he has a commitment to each of the individuals, he being by something that has gone out of existence!
 
 one of them. There is a maxim of civil law that no-one is As soon as this multitude is united into one body in this bound by undertakings he has made to himself, but that way, any offence against one of the members is an attack on doesn’t apply here, because the present topic is incurring an the body, and any offence against the body will be resented obligation to •a whole of which one is a part, and that is very by the members. Thus, the two contracting parties—the different from incurring an obligation to •oneself. individual member and the body politic—are obliged by duty and by self-interest to give each other help....
 
 The proceeding I have been describing can’t give the Now, because the sovereign is made out of nothing but its sovereign a commitment to itself. As I have just pointed constituentindividuals, itdoesn’tandcan’thaveanyinterest out, an individual subject can have a commitment to himself contrary to theirs; so there’s no need for it to provide its in this sense: as an individual he has a commitment to subjects with guarantee ·of treating them well·, because •the the sovereign, and as a member of the sovereign he has body can’t possibly wish to hurt all its members, and—as a commitment to himself. But the sovereign can’t have a commitment to itself; it doesn’t have two distinct roles ·such we’ll see later on—•it can’t hurt any individual one of them either. The sovereign, merely by virtue of what it is, is always thatacommitmentcouldgofromitinoneroleandtowardsit intheother·. Forthesovereigntohaveacommitmenttoitself what it ought to be.
 
 Butthesituationisdifferentwithrespecttotherelationof would be like an individual person having a commitment to the subjects to the sovereign: despite their common interest, himself; it just isn’t possible. And so it is against the nature the sovereign would have no security that the subjects would of the body politic for the sovereign to impose on itself a law behave as they have committed themselves to behaving that it can’t infringe: there isn’t and can’t be any kind of unless it found some way to be assured of their fidelity.
 
 basic law that is binding on the body of the people—even The fact is that each individual •as a man can have the social contract itself can’t do that. This doesn’t mean a particular will that doesn’t fit, and even conflicts with, that the body politic can’t enter into commitments with the general will that he has •as a citizen. His individual others [i.e. with other states].... It can do that, because in relation to what is external to it—·i.e. in relation to other self-interest may speak to him quite differently from how the states or sovereigns·—the sovereign is just a simple being, common interest does. He looks at the situation in this way: an individual.
 
 8 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 18.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
