Tribunes instituted, one which The tribunate, wisely tempered, is the strongest support a •isn’t an integral part of any larger governmental body, good constitution can have; but if its strength is even slightly •gets each term—·each bit of the political structure·— excessive, it overturns everything. As for weakness—that’s back into its right relation with the others, and not in its nature; provided it is something, the tribunate is •is a middle term connecting the prince with people, or never less than it should be.
 
 the prince with the sovereign, or both at once if need It degenerates into tyranny when it be. usurps the executive power that it should be moderating, and when it Thisbody, whichIshallcall‘thetribunate’, istheguardianof tries to dispense with the laws that it should be the laws and of the legislative power. Sometimes it protects protecting.
 
 the sovereign against the government, as the tribunes of the people did in Rome; sometimes it upholds the government The immense power of the Ephors, harmless as long as against the people, as the Council of Ten does now in Venice; Sparta preserved its mœurs [seeGlossary], hastened Sparta’s and sometimes it maintains the balance between the two, as corruption when once it had begun.... Rome perished in the Ephors did in Sparta. the same way: the excessive power of the tribunes, which they had acquired by decreeing that they had it, finally used [Thisparagraphwillusetheword‘city’forthefirsttimesincepage50.
 
 laws that had been made to secure liberty as a protective RecallRousseau’sdistinctioninthefootnoteonpage7between‘city’and shield for the emperors who destroyed liberty. As for the ‘town’.] The tribunate isn’t a constituent part of the city, and Venetian Council of Ten, it is a tribunal of blood, an object of should have no share in either the legislative or the executive horror for nobles and people alike. Far from providing a lofty power; but this very fact makes its own power the greater, protection for the laws, it does nothing, now that the laws because while it can’t do anything it can prevent anything have become degraded, but strike in the darkness blows that from being done. It is more sacred and more revered as the no-one dares to notice.
 
 defender of the laws than the prince that applies them or The tribunate, like the government, weakens as its memthe sovereign that issues them. This was seen very clearly at bership grows. The tribunes of the Roman people started at Rome, whentheproudnobleswhoalwaysscornedthepeople two, then went up to five; and when they wanted to double were forced to bow before a mere officer of the people—·a that number, the senate let them do so, in the confidence tribune·—who that it could play them off against one another, which indeed Rousseau’s next phrase: n’avait ni auspices ni juridiction. it did!
 
 The best way to prevent such a formidable body from what it means: didn’t have (i) auspices or (ii) jurisdiction.
 
 getting out of hand—though no government has yet tried what he may have been getting at: didn’t have any (ii) legal this—would be to have regular periods during which it say over anything or any (i) priests confirming the authority doesn’t exist, rather than its being at work continuously.
 
 of the tribunes by announcing the meanings of cloud-shapes, These intermissions shouldn’t be long enough to give abuses bird-entrails, or whatever. time to grow strong; the law establishing them should be 64 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 46.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
