The people (further continued) There’s no way of stating the ideal relation of size to is initially getting itself in order it is least capable of offering population—nhectarespermpeople—becausethatvariesac- resistance and easiest to destroy. (A battalion that is in cording to differences in •the quality and fertility of the land, process of forming up is vulnerable in the same way.) It in •the nature of what grows on it, in •the climate, and in could resist better at a time of absolute chaos than at a •the temperaments of the people who live on the land. Some moment of ·politically creative· agitation, when everyone is people live in a fertile countryside and consume little, others occupied with his own status and not with the danger. If living on poor soil eat a lot. The legislator also has to take war, famine, or sedition breaks out at this time of crisis, the into account regional differences in the fertility of women, in state will inevitably be overthrown.
 
 how favourable the land is to the growth of population, and It’s true that many governments have been set up during in how much difference is likely to be made by governmental such storms; but in those cases it was the governments activity. So the legislator should go not by what he •sees but themselves that destroyed the state. Usurpers always create by what he •foresees; he shouldn’t settle for the actual level or select times of disturbance and public fear to get destrucof the population but should aim for the level that it ought tive laws passed—laws that the people would never have naturally to attain. Lastly, there are countless situations adopted when they were thinking coolly. One of the surest where the particular local circumstances demand or allow ways of distinguishing a legislator’s work from a tyrant’s is theacquisitionofmoreterritorythanseemsnecessary. Thus, through the question: When did he choose to act?
 
 expansion will be great in a mountainous territory where the Then what people is a fit subject for legislation? One naturalproducts—i.e.woodsandpastures—needlesslabour, •which is already held together by some unity of origin, where it turns out that women are more fertile than in the interest, or agreement, and has never yet felt the real plains, and where a great expanse of slope presents only a yoke of law; small level stretch that can be relied on for growing things. •which doesn’t have deeply ingrained customs or On the other hand, contraction is possible on the coast, superstitions, even in territories of rocks and nearly barren sands, because •which isn’t afraid of being overwhelmed by sudden •there fishing largely makes up for the lack of land-produce, invasion, because •the inhabitants have to cluster together order to •which, without entering into its neighbours’ quarrels, repel pirates, and further because •it is easier to get rid of can resist each of them unaided or can get the help of excess population by starting up colonies. one to repel another, To these conditions for establishing a people there’s •in which each member can be known by every other, another that must be added; it doesn’t take the place of and there is no need to lay on any man burdens too any of the others, but without it they are all useless. This heavy for a man to bear; is the enjoyment of peace and plenty. ·The threat posed by •which doesn’t need and isn’t needed by other want or warfare is especially grave·, because when a state peoples,11 11 Ifthereweretwoneighbouringpeoples,oneofwhichneeded theother,itwouldbeveryhardontheoneandverydangerousfortheother. Everywise nation,insuchacase,wouldmakeitaprioritytofreetheotherfromdependence....
 
 25 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 211.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
