No one form of government...
 
 grows strong. In a nutshell: instead of governing subjects to strength, consumption etc. into account.
 
 make them happy, despotism makes them wretched in order ·To get an idea of what I am talking about·, consider this to govern them. example: Thus, in every climate there are natural causes that •Two stretches of territory x and y, each has an area of determine which form of government would be best for it; a hundred square miles; and we can even say what sort of inhabitants would be best •x brings in five ·loads of corn· and y brings in ten; for it. •the inhabitants of x consume the equivalent of four Harshandbarrenlandswheretheproductisn’tworththe loads of corn, while the inhabitants of y consume labour should remain desert and uncultivated, or occupied nine.
 
 onlybysavages; landswheremen’slabourbringsinprecisely Here the amount of surplus is the same, but the ratios of thebareminimumneededforsurvivalshouldbeinhabitedby surplus to product are different: in x the surplus is a fifth of barbarous peoples: no political structure is possible in such the total, in y it is a tenth....
 
 places; lands where there’s a middling surplus of product There’s no question of x’s having twice the product that y over labour are suitable for free peoples; ones where the has; and I don’t think anyone would maintain that in general soil is abundant and fertile and yields a large product for cold countries are as fertile as hot ones. But suppose that a little labour call for monarchical government, so that the that is how things stand: England is on the same level of excessive surpluses among the subjects may be consumed fertility as Sicily, and Poland as Egypt—further south we’ll by the luxury of the prince: for it’s better for this excess to have Africa and the Indies; further north, nothing at all. To be absorbed by the government than scattered among the get this equality of product, what a difference there must be individuals. Yes, I know that there are exceptions; but these in farming practices! In Sicily they need only to scratch the exceptions themselves confirm the rule, because sooner or ground, whereas in England, how men must toil! And where later they produce revolutions that restore things to the more hands are needed to get the same product, the surplus natural order. must be less.
 
 Let us never confuse general laws with particular causes Bear in mind also that men consume much less in hot that might modify the effects of a law. If all the south countries. To stay healthy in those climes one must eat and were covered with republics and all the north with despotic drink frugally; Europeans who try to live there as they would states, it would still be true that....despotism is suitable at home all die of dysentery and indigestion. Chardin writes: to hot countries, barbarism to cold ones, and good polity ‘We are carnivorous animals, wolves, in comparison to temperate regions. I see also that people who all accept with the Asians. Some attribute the Persians’ fruthe principle may disagree about its application; someone gality to their country’s being less cultivated; but I might say that some cold countries are very fertile, and think that that’s back to front, and that really their some tropical ones are barren. But someone who thinks country is less well supplied with foodstuffs because this is a difficulty ·for my position· hasn’t looked into this the inhabitants need less. If their frugality were an matter thoroughly enough. I repeat, we have to take labour, effect of the land’s poverty, only the poor would eat 41 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 38.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
