Maintaining sovereign authority for justice and the laws. In the word’s precise sense, a will end later than any other, unless some unforeseen event tyrant is an individual who grabs the royal authority without brings about its premature destruction.
 
 having any right to it. That is how the Greeks understood The body politic’s source of life lies in the sovereign the word ‘tyrant’: they applied it even-handedly to good and authority. The legislative power is the state’s •heart, and bad princes whose authority wasn’t legitimate.... ‘Tyrant’ the executive power is its •brain, which puts the parts into and ‘usurper’ are thus perfectly synonymous terms. motion. It can happen that the brain becomes paralysed So as to have different labels for different things, I call while the individual still lives. A man can be an imbecile someone who usurps the royal authority a tyrant, and him while staying alive. But as soon as the heart ceases to who usurps the sovereign power a despot. The tyrant is perform its functions, the animal body is dead.
 
 someone who illegally forces his way in, so as to govern in What keeps the state alive is not •the laws but •the accordance with the laws; the despot is someone who sets legislative power. Yesterday’s law is not binding to-day; but himself above even the laws. Thus the tyrant needn’t be a tacit consent is inferred from silence; and when there’s a law despot, but the despot is always a tyrant. that •the sovereign could abrogate but doesn’t, •it is held to be continuously confirming it. Anything that it has ever declared itself to will it wills always unless it says otherwise.
 
 11. The death of the body politic That’s why so much respect is paid to old laws. We Death is the natural and inevitable tendency of the best should accept that nothing could have preserved them for constituted governments. If Sparta and Rome perished, what so long but their own excellence; if the sovereign hadn’t state can hope to last for ever? If we want to establish a recognised them as salutary, it would have cancelled them long-lived form of government, let us not even dream of a thousand times. So in any well constituted state the laws making it eternal! If we’re to succeed, we mustn’t attempt continually grow (not weaker from old age, but) stronger....
 
 the impossible, or flatter ourselves that we are endowing the And wherever the laws grow weak as they age, this shows work of man with a stability that the human condition is not •that there is no longer a legislative power, and that •the in fact capable of. state is dead.
 
 The body politic, like the human body, begins to die as soon as it is born, and carries in itself the causes of its 12. How the sovereign authority is maintained destruction. But in each case the life-span may be longer or shorter, depending on whether the constitution is more or The sovereign, having no force except the legislative power, less robust. Man’s constitution is the work of •nature; the acts only through the laws; and because the laws are just state’s constitution is the work of •art, ·i.e. it is man-made, the authentic acts of the general will, the sovereign can’t act artificial, not natural·. It isn’t in men’s power to prolong except when the populace is assembled. ‘The populace in their own lives; but it’s up to them to give the state as long assembly—what a fantasy!’ you’ll want to say. It is so today, a life as possible by giving it the best possible constitution. but 2000 years ago it wasn’t. Has man’s nature changed?
 
 Even the best constituted state will come to an end; but it The bounds of human possibility are not as confining as 46 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 313.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
