Different systems of legislation •which is neither rich nor poor, but self-sufficient; and •those with power shan’t sink to the level of using finally violence, and that their power will always be exercised •which combines the solidity of an ancient people with by virtue of rank and law; the docility [here=‘willingnesstobeled’] of a new one. and that What makes the work of legislation difficult is not so much •No citizen will ever be wealthy enough to buy another, what has to be constructed as what has to be destroyed; and and none poor enough to be forced to sell himself12 what makes success so rare is the impossibility of finding —which implies, on the part of the great, no extremes of •natural simplicity combined with •the features that are goods and credit [= ‘borrowing power’] and on the side of the needed for society to be possible. All these conditions are ordinary folk no extremes of miserliness or greed.
 
 indeed rarely found united, which is why few states have They say that this equality is a theoretical pipe-dream good constitutions.
 
 that can’t exist in practice. But ·even· if it is certain to be There is still in Europe one country capable of being given abused, is that a reason for not at least making regulations laws—Corsica. That brave people has shown such valour concerning it? It’s precisely because the forces at work in and persistency in •regaining and •defending its liberty well the world always tend to destroy equality that the force of that it deserves to have some wise man teach it how to legislation should always tend to maintain it.
 
 •preserve it. I have a feeling that some day that little island will astonish Europe. [NapoleonBonapartewasbornthere!] But these general goals of any good constitution [seeGlossary] need to be adapted in each country to the local situation and the character of the inhabitants; it’s these that should 11. Differences among systems of legislation determinetheparticularinstitutionalsystemthatisbest,not What precisely is the greatest good of all, the good that perhaps in itself, but for the state in question. For example: should be the goal of every system of legislation? It comes what if the soil is barren and unproductive, or the land too down to two main things: •liberty and •equality—liberty crowded for its inhabitants? Then turn to industry and the because any constraint on one individual means that that crafts, and exchange what they produce for the commodities much force is taken from the body of the state, and equality you lack. If on the other hand your territory is rich and because liberty can’t exist without it. fertile, focus your efforts on labour-intensive agriculture, I have already defined civil liberty. As for equality: we and drive out the crafts that would only depopulate your should take this to mean not that the degrees of power and territories by clustering what few inhabitants you have in riches are to be absolutely the same for everyone, but that a few towns.13 If you live on an extensive and manageable 12 Do you want the state to be solid? Then make the wealth-spread as small as you can; don’t allow rich men or beggars. These two conditions are naturally inseparable: ·any state that has very wealthy citizens will also have beggars, and vice versa·. And they are equally fatal to the common good: one produces supporters of tyranny, the other produces tyrants. It is always between them that public liberty is put on sale: one buys, the othersells.
 
 13 ‘Any branch of foreign commerce’, says the Marquis d’Argenson, ‘creates over-all only an apparent advantage for the kingdom in general; it may enrichsomeindividuals,orevensometowns,butthenationasawholegainsnothingbyitandthepopulaceisnobetteroff.’ 26 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 212.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
