Abuse and degeneration of government motivates the author? No! Whatever they say, when despite did more to strengthen it than all its dissensions had done its renown a country is losing population it’s not true that all to weaken it. A little disturbance energizes the soul; what iswellthere;apoetmayhaveanincomeof100,000francsfor makes our species truly prosperous is not so much peace as saying that his age is the best of all, but that doesn’t change liberty.
 
 anything. Less attention should be paid to •the apparent peace and tranquility of the rulers than to •the well-being of whole nations and especially those with the largest pop- 10. How government is abused. Its tendency to ulations. A hail-storm lays several cantons to waste, but it degenerate doesn’t often create a famine. Outbreaks and civil wars scare rulers, but they aren’t the real misfortunes of peoples, who Just as the individual will is constantly acting in opposition can even relax a little while there’s a dispute going on about to the general will, so the government is continually exerting who shall tyrannise over them. Their real prosperities and itself against the sovereignty. The more strenuously it does calamities come from their permanent condition: it’s when this, the more the constitution changes; and because in the whole remains crushed beneath the yoke that the whole this situation there’s no other corporate will to create an falls into decay. That is when the rulers destroy them at equilibrium by resisting the will of the prince, eventually the will, and ‘Where they create a waste-land, they call it peace’ prince will bear down hard on the sovereign and break the (Tacitus, Agricola 31) [RousseauquotesTacituseachtimeinLatin]. social treaty. [Rememberthat‘theprince’=‘thegovernment’,and‘the When the troubles among the great disturbed the kingdom sovereign’=‘thegeneralwill’.] This is the inherent and inevitable of France, and the Assistant Bishop of Paris went to the defect which, from the very birth of the body politic, tends Parliament with a dagger in his pocket, these things didn’t ceaselessly to destroy it, as age and death eventually destroy preventthepeopleofFrancefromprosperingandmultiplying the human body.
 
 in dignity, in free and honourable ease. There was a time How does a government degenerate? There are two basic when Greece flourished in the midst of the most savage wars; ways: •it shrinks, or •the state is dissolved.
 
 blood ran in torrents, yet the whole country was covered A government contracts when it changes from the many with inhabitants. It appeared, says Machiavelli, that in the to the few, i.e. from democracy to aristocracy, and from midst of murder, proscription and civil war, our republic did aristocracy to monarchy. It has a natural tendency to move well; the virtue, morality and independence of the citizens in that direction.17 If a government took the reverse course 17 The slow formation and the development of the Republic of Venice in its lagoons are a notable instance of this sequence; and it is most astonishing that after more than twelve hundred years’ the Venetians seem to be still at the second stage, which they reached with the closing down of the Great Council in 1198.... Opponents of my view are sure to cite the Roman Republic, which they will say followed exactly the opposite course, going from monarchy to aristocracy and then to democracy. I don’t look at it in anything like that way. What Romulus first set up was a mixed government, which soon deteriorated into despotism. From special causes, that state died an untimely death, as new-born children sometimes die withoutreachingmanhood. TherealbirthoftheRomanrepublicdatesfromtheexpulsionoftheTarquins;butatthattimeitdidn’thaveaconstant form because the job was only half-done: they didn’t abolish the nobility. In that way hereditary aristocracy—the worst of all legitimate forms of administration—remained in conflict with democracy, and the form of the government was free-floating and uncertain. It didn’t get fixed until this 44 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 310.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
