The signs of a good government its strength grows with distance like that of a lever.16 The be ignored; people’s strength, on the other hand, acts only when con- •some are content as long as money circulates, others centrated: when it is spread around it evaporates and is demand that the people have bread.
 
 lost, like gunpowder powder scattered on the ground, which Even if we reached agreement on points like these, would ·doesn’t explode but· only catches fire grain by grain. The that be any sort of progress? Moral qualities can’t be least populous countries are thus the fittest for tyranny: measured exactly, so agreement about •the signs of good fierce animals reign only in deserts. government could still leave us disagreeing about •which actual governments are good ones.
 
 I am continually astonished that such a simple sign 9. The signs of a good government ·of good government· isn’t recognised, or perhaps men do So if someone asks ‘What is, over-all, the best government?’ recognise it but aren’t honest enough to say so. What is he has to be told that the question is unanswerable as well the purpose of any political association? The preservation as being indeterminate; or you could say that it has as and prosperity of its members. And what is the surest many good answers as there are possible combinations in sign of their preservation and prosperity? Their number the absolute and relative situations of all nations. and their population·-growth·. That’s the sign you are looking for. Other things being equal, the unquestionably ‘Well, by what sign can we tell whether a given people is best government is the one under which the population well or badly governed?’—that’s a question of fact that does increases most, without external help from naturalising have an answer.
 
 foreigners or establishing colonies. The government under But we don’t have the answer to it, because everyone which the population shrinks is the worst. Over to you, wants to answer it in his own way: Calculators—count, measure, compare!
 
 •Subjects praise public tranquility, citizens praise individual liberty; ·THE NEXT PARAGRAPH WAS ORIGINALLY A SINGLE FOOTNOTE· •some prefer security of possessions, others security Thatshouldalsobethebasisfordecidingwhichcenturies of the person; have been the best for human prosperity. There has been •someholdthatthebestgovernmentisthemostsevere, too much admiration for the times when arts and letters others that it is the mildest; flourished, bypeoplewhodidn’tseethehiddenobjectoftheir •some want crimes punished, others want them pre- culture, and didn’t take into account its fatal effect. ‘What vented; ignorant people called “civilized culture’ was really an aspect •some want the state to be feared by its neighbours, of slavery’ (Tacitus, Agricola, 31). Will we ever see in the others prefers that it should ·keep a low profile and· maxims of any book a statement of the vulgar interest that 16 This doesn’t contradict what I said earlier [page 23] about the disadvantages of great states. The topic back there was the government’s authority over itsmembers, whereas the presenttopic isits force againstthe subjects. Itsscattered membersserve itas fulcrums foraction ata distance·by leverage· against the people; but the government has no fulcrum for direct action on its own members. Thus for the government the length of the leverisaweaknessforonepurposeandastrengthfortheother.
 
 43 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 310.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
