The comitia in ancient Rome display of his riches found himself degraded to the class of business didn’t have time to spend the day in the public thepoor! [By‘strongerthanthisinstitution’Rousseaumayhavemeant square. By means of (c), the senate kept a tight rein on ‘stronger than any tendencies in ancient Rome to greed, restlessness, the proud and restive people, and (when this was needed) intrigueetc.’.] restrained the ardour of seditious tribunes; though the So it’s easy to see why usually only five classes are tribunes found more than one way of getting around this mentioned, though there were really six. Because the sixth hindrance.
 
 didn’t provide soldiers for the army or votes in the Campus The comitia passed judgment on more than merely laws Martius,24 and was almost without function in the state, it and the election of rulers; the Roman populace took on itself was seldom regarded as of any account. the most important functions of government. It can be said These were the various ways in which the Roman people that the fate of Europe was regulated in its assemblies! The was divided. Let us now see how these divisions affected variety of things they dealt with created variety in the forms the assemblies. When lawfully summoned, these assemblies they took.
 
 were called comitia: they were usually held in the public To form a judgment about these various forms, all we square or in the Campus Martius, and were of three kinds: need do is to compare them. When Romulus set up the (1) the comitia curiata, which were founded by Romulus, curiae, his aim was to use the people to check the senate, (2)thecomitiacenturiata, whichwerefoundedbyServius, and the senate to check the people, while continuing to and dominate both. So he set things up in such a way that (3)thecomitiatributa whichwerefoundedbythetribunes the people would have all the authority of •numbers to of the people. balance the authority of •power and riches, which he left No law received its sanction and no magistrate was elected to the nobility. But in the spirit of monarchy he gave a except in the comitia; and as every citizen was enrolled in a greater advantage to the nobility through the influence of curia, a century, or a tribe, it follows that every citizen had their clients on vote-numbers. This admirable institution the right to vote, and that the Roman populace was truly of •patron and •client was a masterpiece of statesmanship sovereign—both •as a matter of law and •in fact. and humanity without which the nobility as a class, being For the comitia to be lawfully assembled, and for their flagrantly in contradiction to the republican spirit, couldn’t acts to have the force of law, three conditions had to be met. have survived. Rome alone has the honour of having given to (a) The body or magistrate convoking them had to have the the world this great example, which never led to any abuse authority to do so. (b) The assembly had to be held on a day but has never been followed.
 
 allowed by law. (c) The auguries had to be favourable. The assemblies by curiae persisted under the kings till The reason for (a) needs no explanation. (b) is a matter of the time of Servius.... Under the Republic the curiae, policy; for example, the comitia were not to held on festivals still confined to the four urban tribes and containing only or market-days, when the country-folk coming to Rome on the populace of Rome, didn’t suit the senate (which led 24 Isay‘intheCampusMartius’becausethatiswherethecomitia assembledbycenturies;initstwootherformsthepopulaceassembledintheforum orelsewhere;andthenthe‘countedheads’hadasmuchinfluenceandauthorityastheforemostcitizens.
 
 61 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 44.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
