The comitia in ancient Rome When Servius made his new division, as the thirty curiae census.) Lastly, he ordered that the assembly should be held couldn’t be shared equally between his four tribes, and he in the Campus Martius, and everyone whose age made him didn’t want to interfere with them; so they became a further liable for military service should bring his weapons.
 
 division of the inhabitants of Rome, quite independent of Why didn’t he divide the last class into young and old?
 
 the tribes. But curiae didn’t have any bearing on the rural Because its members weren’t given the right to bear arms tribes or their members, because for them the tribes had for the country: to have the right to defend hearth and home, become a purely civil institution, and a new system for a man had to have a hearth and home! Of all the countless raising troops had been introduced, making the military troops of beggars who to-day lend lustre to the armies of divisionsofRomulussuperfluous. [Rousseauhasn’tsaidexplicitly kings, there is perhaps not one who wouldn’t have been thatthedivisionintocuriae wasamilitaryone;thereaderispresumably scornfully driven out of a Roman platoon back in the days expectedtoknowthis,] Thus, althougheverycitizenwasenrolled when soldiers were the defenders of liberty.
 
 in a tribe, many of them were not members of a curia. [Rousseau will now refer to certain people (in Latin) as capite censi = Servius also made a third division—quite distinct from ‘head-count people’. They couldn’t figure in a census through their the two I have mentioned—and the effects of this made it number of houses, businesses, animals, slaves etc., because they didn’t the most important of the three. He sorted the whole Roman own anything.] But this last class was further divided into people into six classes, distinguished not by place or person •proletarians and the •capite censi. The proletarians, not but by wealth; the first classes included the rich, the last quite reduced to nothing, at least gave the state citizens and the poor, and those in between included people of moderate in some times of great need even gave it soldiers. The capite means. These six classes were subdivided into 183 other censi, who had nothing at all and could be numbered only by bodies, called ‘centuries’, which were distributed in such counting heads, were regarded as zeroes, and Marius—·four a way that the first class alone comprised more than half centuries after Servius·—was the first who stooped to enroll of them, while the last class comprised only one. Thus them.
 
 the class that had the fewest members contained the most Without deciding now whether this third arrangement centuries, and the whole of the last class—which included was good or bad in itself, I think I can say that it couldn’t more than half the inhabitants of Rome—only counted as a have worked if it weren’t for the early Romans’ simple mœurs single subdivision, ·a single century·. [see Glossary], disinterestedness, liking for agriculture, and To veil the results of this arrangement from the people, scorn for commerce and the profit motive. Where is the Servius tried to give it a military tone: in the second class he modern people among whom consuming greed, restlessness, inserted two centuries of armourers, and in the fourth two intrigue,continualpromotionsanddemotions,andperpetual of ·makers of· weapons; and in each class except the last he changes of fortune, could leave such a system in place for distinguished young from old, i.e. distinguished those who ·even· twenty years without toppling the entire state? I were obliged to bear arms from those whose age gave them should add that mœurs and the censorship [see Glossary], legal exemption. (It was this distinction, rather than that of being stronger than this institution, corrected its defects wealth, that created the need for frequent repetition of the at Rome—·for example·, a rich man who made too much 60 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 44.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
