The civil state that they formerly lacked. The voice of duty has taken over ’I have an absolute and naturally independent exis- from physical impulses and ·a sense of what is· right has tence; ·I’m not something that exists only because take over from appetite; and now—only now—the man who certain items have come together in an association·. has until now considered only himself finds himself forced to So what I am said to ‘owe’ to the common cause—·i.e. act on different principles and to consult his reason before to the body politic or sovereign whose existence is in listening to his inclinations. In this ·civil· state he is deprived that way dependent on the conduct of its members·— of many advantages that he got from nature, but he gets is really a gift, a hand-out; if I withhold it, that won’t enormous benefits in return—his faculties are so stimulated harm anyone else as much as it will benefit me. As and developed, his ideas are extended, his feelings ennobled, for the ‘moral person’ that constitutes the state, that’s and his whole soul uplifted. All this happens to such an not a man but a mere mental construct.’ extent that if the abuses of this new condition didn’t often pull him down to something lower than he was in •the state So he may wish to enjoy the rights of citizenship without of nature, he would be bound to bless continually the happy being ready to fulfill the duties of a subject; and if that went moment that took him from •it for ever, and out of a dull and on for long enough it would destroy the body politic.
 
 limited animal made a thinking being, a man.
 
 To protect the social compact from being a mere empty Let us get a statement of profit and loss in terms that formula, therefore, it silently includes the undertaking that make it easy to compare the two sides. What man loses by anyonewhorefusestoobeythegeneralwillistobecompelled the social contract is to do so by the whole body. This single item in the compact can give power to all the other items. It means nothing less •his natural liberty and than that each individual will be forced to be free. ·It’s •an unrestricted right to anything he wants and can obvious how forcing comes into this, but...to be free? Yes·, get.
 
 because this is the condition which, by giving each citizen What he gains to his country, secures him against all personal dependence, •civil liberty and ·i.e. secures him against being taken by anyone or anything •the ownership of everything he possesses.
 
 else·. This is the key to the working of the political machine; If we’re to weigh these up accurately, we must distinguish it alone legitimises civil commitments which would otherwise •natural liberty, which is limited only by the individbe absurd, tyrannical, and liable to frightful abuses. ual’s powers, from •civil liberty, which is limited by the general will.
 
 And we must distinguish 8. The civil state •possession, which is merely the effect of force or the This passage from •the state of nature to •the civil state principle of ‘first come, first served’, from produces a very remarkable change in man: the role that •property, which can only be based on a positive title.
 
 instinct used to play in his conduct is now taken over by ·a We could add on the ‘profit’ side the fact that in the civil state sense of· justice, and his actions now have a moral aspect a man acquires moral liberty, which alone makes him truly 9 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 19.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
