The right of life and death 5. The right of life and death survival is inconsistent with his survival, and one of the two must die; when we put the guilty to death, we’re doing this This question has been raised: ‘Given that individuals have not so much to a citizen as to an enemy. He has broken the no right to dispose of their own lives, how can they give social treaty—the investigation and trial show this, and the that right to the sovereign, transferring something that they judgment declares it—so he is no longer a member of the don’t possess?’ This looks hard to answer only because it is state. But he has recognised himself as a member if only by wrongly stated. Every man has a right to risk his own life in living there; so he must be lopped off order to preserve it. A man who jumps from a high window by exile, as a violator of the compact, or to escape from a fire—is he ever said to be guilty of suicide? by death, as a public enemy.
 
 Has that crime been alleged against anyone perishes in a Such an enemy isn’t a •moral person [see Glossary], he’s a storm that he knew, when he went on board, had some •man; and in such a case the right of war is to kill the probability of occurring?
 
 vanquished.
 
 The social treaty aims for the preservation of the contract- You’ll say ‘But the condemnation of a criminal is a particing parties. He who wills •the end also wills •the means, and ular act ·and is therefore, according to your chapter 4 of this the means must involve some risks, and even some losses. Part, not something that the sovereign can do·. Right! But Someone who is willing to save •his life at others’ expense this condemnation is not something the sovereign does; it’s should also be ready to give •it up for their sake, when there a right the sovereign that can confer without being able itself is a need for this. Now, the citizen is no longer the judge of to exert it. All my ideas hang together, but I can’t expound the risks that the law wants him to run, and when the prince them all at once.
 
 says to him: ‘It is expedient for the state that you should die’, We may add that frequent punishments [supplices = ‘punhe ought to die. Why? Because his life is no longer merely a ishments involving death or torture’] are always a sign that the natural good, but is a gift made conditionally by the state; government is weak or lazy. Every wrong-doer could be ·it is conditional on his always meeting the state’s demands, turned to some good. There’s no right to put to death, even and· it’s only on that condition that he has been living in for the sake of making an example, anyone who could safely security up to the present. be left alive.
 
 The death-penalty for criminals can be seen in much the The right of pardoning a guilty man, or letting him off samelight: itisinordertosaveourselvesfromassassinsthat from a penalty imposed by the law and pronounced by the weconsenttodieifwebecomeassassins. Inthistreaty—·this judge, belongs only to the authority that is above the judge social contract·—so far from disposing of our own lives, we and the law, i.e. the sovereign; and even its right in this think only of securing them; and it isn’t to be assumed that matter is far from clear, and it’s hardly ever called for. A any of the parties then expects to get himself hanged! well-governed state has few punishments, not because there Every criminal by attacking social rights becomes a rebel are many pardons, but because criminals are rare: it’s easier and a traitor to his country; by violating its laws he stops to get away with crimes when there are a great many of being a member of it—he even makes war on it. The state’s them and the state is terminally ill. In the Roman republic 17 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 26.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
