Civic religion ·Starting from the Hobbbesian viewpoint·, we would demon- There’s a third bizarre sort of religion (c) that •gives men strate to Bayle that no state has ever been founded without a two codes of law, two rulers, and two countries, •imposes religiousbasis,andtoWarburtonthatChristianlawbasically contradictory duties on them, and •makes it impossible for weakens the state’s constitution more than it helps it. To them to be believers and citizens. The religion of the Lamas make myself understood, I have only to sharpen up a little is like that, and so is the religion of the Japanese. Another the unduly vague ideas of religion that come up in this example is Roman ·Catholic· Christianity. We could call this subject. sort of religion the religion of the priest. It leads to a sort of Religion, considered in relation to society, can be divided mixed and anti-social code that has no name ·analogous to into two kinds. (a) With the relevant ‘society’ taken as the ‘natural divine’ and ‘positive divine’ for the other two·.
 
 whole of mankind, we have the religion of man; (b) with Looked at from the political point of view, these three ‘society’ understood at the society of this or that nation we kinds of religion all have defects. (c) is so clearly bad that have the religion of the citizen of this or that nation. (a) •passing the time proving that it is so would be •wasting doesn’t have temples, or altars or rites, and is confined •to time. Anything that destroys social unity is worthless; all the purely internal worship of the supreme God and •the institutions that set man in contradiction to himself are eternal obligations of morality; it is the religion of the Gospel worthless.
 
 pure and simple, the true theism, what may be called natu- (b) has some good features. It unites divine worship with ral divine law. (b) is codified in a single country, to which it love of the laws. By making the country the object of the gives its gods and its own patron saints; it has its dogmas, citizens’ adoration, it teaches them that service done to the its rites, and its external forms of worship prescribed by state is service done to its guardian god. It is a form of law; it views all the other nations as unbelievers, foreign, theocracy, in which there should be no pope but the prince, barbarous; it doesn’t regard the duties and rights of man as and no priests but the magistrates. In this system, dying for extending far beyond its own altars. The religions of early one’s country is suffering martyrdom; violating its laws is peoples were all of this sort. We could label them as civil or sacrilege; and subjecting a criminal to public execration is positive divine law. condemning him to the anger of the gods....
 
 But it is bad in that, being based on lies and error, it [In the contrast between natural law and positive law, ‘positive’ means deceives men, makes them credulous and superstitious, and ‘created by the decisions of human beings’. It was a generally underdrowns the true worship of the Divinity [Rousseau’s phrase] stood distinction in early modern times; Rousseau is here using it to in empty ceremonies. It is also bad when by becoming distinguishtwokindsofreligion,suggestingthatoneofthemisnatural— tyrannical and exclusive it makes a people bloodthirsty and perhaps an upshot of human nature—whereas the other is artificial, intolerant, breathing murder and massacre, and regarding somethingdeliberatelydevisedorinventedbyhumans. Hethrowsin‘dias a sacred act the killing of anyone who doesn’t believe in vine’becausetheitemsunderdiscussionarereligions;Rousseaudoesn’t its gods. This puts such a people into a natural state of war think that any god has anything to do with (b), and the adjective-pair with everyone else, so that its security is deeply endangered.
 
 ‘positive divine’, which means ‘man-made and divine’ and is virtually self-contradictory,isajoke.] 70 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 48.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
