The comitia in ancient Rome that’s needed, because in a well constituted state these earth exercised its supreme power.
 
 qualities are common to all the citizens. After the foundation of Rome, the new-born republic—i.e.
 
 Neither lottery nor vote has any place in monarchical the army of its founder, composed of Albans, Sabines and government. The monarch being by right sole prince and foreigners—was divided into three classes which then came only magistrate, it is for him alone to choose his lieutenants. to be called ‘tribes’. Each of these tribes was subdivided into When the Abbé de Saint-Pierre proposed that the Councils of ten curiae, and each curia into decuriae, headed by leaders the King of France should be multiplied, and their members called curiones and decuriones.
 
 elected by ballot, he didn’t see that he was proposing to Besides this, out of each tribe was taken a body of one change the ·fundamental· form of government. hundred cavalrymen or knights, called a ‘century’, which I should now speak of the methods of giving and counting shows that these divisions, being unnecessary in a town, opinions in the assembly of the people; but perhaps an were at first merely military. But an instinct for greatness historical account of this aspect of Roman politics will give seems to have led the little town of Rome to provide itself in you more of a sense of the rules I could lay down. It is worth advance with a political system suitable for the capital of the the while of a judicious reader to follow in some detail the world.
 
 working of public and private affairs in a council with two [Regarding this next paragraph: Servius was a king of Rome in the hundred thousand members. sixth century BCE.] Out of this original division an awkward situation soon arose. The tribes of the Albans and the Sabinesremainedalwaysinthesamecondition, whilethatof 4. The comitia in ancient Rome the foreigners continually grew as more and more foreigners We have no reliable records of Rome’s early years; it seems came to live in Rome, so that it soon surpassed the others very likely, indeed, that most of the stories told about it are ·in strength·. Servius remedied this dangerous fault by abolfables. In general, the most instructive part of the history ishing the racial basis for the division into tribes, replacing of peoples, namely the past dealing with their foundation, it by a geographical one—four tribes now, each containing is just what we have least of. Experience teaches us every the inhabitants of one of the hills of Rome, after which it was day what causes generate the revolutions of empires; but named. In this way, while fixing the immediate inequality new peoples are not formed these days, so we have almost problem Servius also provided for the future; and so that nothing beyond conjecture to go upon in explaining how they the division might be one of persons as well as localities, he were created. forbade the inhabitants of one quarter to migrate to another, The customs we find established show at least that these and so prevented the mingling of the races.
 
 customs had an origin. The traditions that go back to those He also doubled ·the size of· the three old ‘centuries’ origins, and have the greatest authorities behind them, and of knights, and added twelve more, still keeping the old are confirmed by the strongest evidence, should count as names, and by this simple and prudent method he drew a the most certain. These are the rules I have tried to follow line between the body of knights and the people, without a in investigating how the freest and most powerful people on murmur from the people.
 
 58 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 44.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
