The limits of the sovereign power 3. Can the general will be wrong? general will of its members—is still a particular [particulière] will so far as the state is concerned; so that it can then be It follows from all this that the general will is always in the said that as many votes as there are men is replaced by as right and always works for the public good; but it doesn’t many votes as there are associations. The particular wills follow that the people’s deliberations are always equally become less numerous and give a less general result. And correct. Our will is always for our own good, but we don’t when one of these associations is so great as to prevail over always see what that is; the populace is never corrupted, all the rest, the result is no longer a sum of small particular but it is often deceived, and then—but only then—it seems willsbutasingleparticularwill; andthenthereisnolongera to will something bad. [The French for Rousseau’s endorsement of generalwill, andtheopinionthatprevailsispurelyparticular the general will is toujours droite, which has been translated as ‘always [particulier].
 
 right’ and also as ‘always within its rights’; the matter is controversial. If the general will is to emerge clearly it’s important that Therendering‘intheright’—hereandtwicemore—isacowardlycompro- there should be no partial society within the state, and that mise.] each citizen should think only his own thoughts:6 which The •will of all is very different from the •general will; was indeed the sublime and unique system established by the latter looks only to the common interest, while the the great Lycurgus. And if there are partial societies, it’s former looks to private interest and is no more than a sum best to have as many as possible and to prevent them from of particular wills: but remove from these same wills the becoming unequal, as was done by Solon, Numa and Servius.
 
 pluses and minuses that cancel one another5 and what is These precautions are the only ones that can ensure that left of the particular wills adds up to the general will. [In the general will is always enlightened and that the populace that sentence, and four times in the next paragraph, ‘particular will(s)’ is never in error.
 
 translatesRousseau’sdifférence(s)’,whichinthisonecontextheusesin anoddlynon-relationalway.] 4. The limits of the sovereign power If the populace held its deliberations (on the basis of adequate information) without the citizens communicating If the state or city is nothing but a moral person whose life with one another, what emerged from all the little particular consists in the union of its parts, and if its most important wills would always be the general will, and the decision concern is for its own preservation, it must have a universal would always be good. But when plots and deals lead to force to move and place each part in the way that is most the formation of •partial associations at the expense of •the advantageous to the whole. Just as nature gives each man big association, the will of each of these associations—the absolute power over all his members, the social compact 5 ‘Every interest’, says the Marquis d’Argenson, ‘has different principles. What brings two particular interests into agreement is their ·shared· oppositiontoa third.’ Hecouldhaveaddedthatwhatbringsallinterestsintoagreementistheir·shared·oppositiontoeach. Ifindividualinterests didn’tdifferfromoneanother,thecommoninterestwouldhavenothingtobumpupagainst,andsoitwouldhardlybefelt....
 
 6 ‘In fact,’ says Machiavelli, ‘some divisions are harmful to a republic and some are advantageous. Those that stir up sects and parties are harmful; those attended by neither are advantageous. So, since the founder of a Republic can’t help enmities arising, he ought at least to prevent them from growingintosects’(HistoryofFlorence,Book7).
 
 14 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 24.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
