Civic religion

There is still the religion of people, which is Christianity. But Christians don’t really join in with the country’s happiness because they worry that the kind of Christianity they believe in is very different from today’s. The true Christianity teaches that all people are children of one God and should see each other as brothers. This means the society that connects them is very strong, even after death.

For a country to be peaceful and get along, all the citizens would have to be good Christians. If there was even one selfish or fake person—a bad leader like Catiline or Cromwell—that person would probably trick the good Christians and take over. Christian kindness makes it hard for people to think badly of others. But as soon as a bad person finds a way to fool everyone and grab power, the government loses respect. God wants us to respect those who are in charge.

People say that if everyone were true Christians, the society would be perfect. But I think a society of only true Christians wouldn’t really be a society of people. A perfect society wouldn’t be strong or last long. Its very goodness would cause problems. Everyone would do their duties, follow laws, rulers would be fair, and soldiers wouldn’t fear death. There would be no showing off or wasting money. That sounds good, but there’s more to think about.

If a war starts, the citizens would fight bravely and not run away. They would do their duty but wouldn’t care much about winning. They understand that dying is better than winning in some ways. For them, it doesn’t really matter if they win or lose because they trust that fate or God knows what’s best. Imagine how hard it would be for a proud and passionate enemy to beat a calm and steady Christian army!

Christianity is about spirit and heaven, not about this world. A Christian does their duty but doesn’t worry much about the results. As long as they have done their best, it doesn’t matter if things go well or badly here. If the country does well, fine. If not, that’s okay too. The main goal is to get to heaven, and accepting hard times without complaining is just another way to reach that goal.
