The law-maker when it suffered a revival of all the crimes of tyranny and the fundamental rules of statecraft, the effect would have came close to death, because it put the legislative authority to become the cause! The social spirit that is to be created and the sovereign power into the same hands. by these institutions would have to preside over their very [In the next sentence, Decemviri = ‘ten men’, referring to the men foundation; and men would have to be, •in advance of the whointhe5thcenturyBCEweredelegatedtodrawupacodeoflawsfor laws, what they should become •by means of the laws. So the Roman republic.] Nevertheless, the Decemviri themselves the law-maker, being unable to appeal either to •force or to never claimed the right to pass any law merely on their own •reason, must resort to an authority of a different order that authority. ‘Nothing we propose to you’, they said to the can •constrain without violence and people, ‘can pass into law without your consent. Romans, Rousseau’s next three words: persuader sans convaincre.
 
 be yourselves the authors of the laws that are to make you flatly translated: persuade without convincing.
 
 happy.’ probable meaning: get people on-side without giving them So he who draws up the laws doesn’t or shouldn’t have reasons for this.
 
 any right to legislate; and the populace can’t deprive itself of this non-transferable right, even if it wants to, because That’s what has down the centuries compelled •the fathers according to the basic compact the only thing that can bind of the nations to appeal to divine intervention and credit individuals is the general will, and the only way to be sure the gods with •their own wisdom, in order that the peoples— that a particular will is in conformity with the general will is submitting to the laws of the state as to the laws of nature, to put it to a free vote of the people. I have already said this, and recognising the power that formed the city as the very but it’s worth repeating it. one that formed mankind—might obey freely, and bear with Thus in the task of law-giving we find two things together docility the yoke of the public happiness.
 
 thatseemincompatible: anenterprisethatsurpasseshuman What the legislator puts into the mouth of the immortals powers,andforitsexecutionanauthoritythatisn’tanything! are decisions based on a high-flying reason that is far above Another difficulty deserves attention. Wise [see Glossary] the range of the common herd, the aim being to constrain men who try to speak in their language to the common herd, by divine authority those who can’t be moved by human instead speaking as the herd does, have no chance of being prudence. But it’s not just anyone who can make the gods understood. There are countless kinds of ideas that can’t speak, or be believed when he claims to be their interpreter.
 
 possiblybetranslatedinto•thelanguageofthepeople. Views The only miracle that can prove a legislator’s mission is his thataretoobroadandobjectsthataretoodistantareequally great soul. Any man can out of •its range: each individual, having no taste for any •engrave words on tablets of stone, or plan of government that doesn’t suit his particular interests, •purchase the services of an oracle, or can’t easily see the advantages he would get as payback for •fake secret communication with some god, or the continual privations that good laws impose on him. For •train a bird to whisper in his ear, or a populace that is just coming into being ·as a body· to be findothercrudedevicesforimposingonthepeople. Someone able to relish sound principles of political theory and follow who can’t do better than that may perhaps gather round 21 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 28.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
