Mixed governments can be confusing because they don’t stay the same. Sometimes rulers are bad or don’t know what they’re doing. This can happen because they were already like that when they became king, or because being in charge changes them.

Our writers understand this, but they don’t worry about it much. They say the best thing to do is to obey without complaining. They believe that God sends bad kings as a kind of punishment, and people just have to deal with it. This sounds like a good story, but wouldn’t it be better to learn about government from a real place, like a classroom, instead of just a book?

When the government is bad, we have to put up with it because there’s nothing else we can do. The real problem is how to find a good leader.

In a monarchy, every time a new minister comes in, it’s like a mini-revolution because they always do the opposite of the last person. Some people say there’s no such thing as a simple government. For example, a king needs helpers called magistrates, and a government run by the people still needs a leader.

Sometimes the power is shared in different ways. Sometimes the bigger group depends on the smaller one, sometimes it’s the other way around. Sometimes the power is shared equally, like in England where different parts of the government rely on each other. But this last way is bad because it causes confusion and there’s nothing to hold the government together.

Is it better to have a simple government or a mixed one? This is a question people argue about all the time. Simple government is better by itself because it’s easier to understand. But when the leader doesn’t have enough power, things can get messy.

Plato said a king who is naturally good is very rare. So how often does someone like that actually become king? And since princes usually get spoiled by their royal education, what chance do we have of getting a good king? People who think royal government means having a good king are only fooling themselves. To really understand royal government, we have to look at it under real kings who rule in real life.
