Democracy 4. Democracy Besides, such a government requires so many conditions that are hard to satisfy all at once! •A small state, where the Whoever (a) makes a law knows better than anyone else how people can assemble easily and where it’s not hard for each it should be (b) interpreted and applied. It seems then that citizen to know all the rest; •simplicity of mœurs [seeGlossary], thebestpossibleconstitutionisoneinwhichthe(b)executive to prevent complexity and controversy in public affairs; •a and (a) legislative powers are united; but this very union high degree of equality in rank and fortune, without which would make the government in certain respects inadequate, equality of rights and authority can’t exist for long; and •little because it runs together things that should be distinguished; or no luxury—for luxury either comes from riches or makes and the (b) prince and the (a) sovereign, being the same them necessary. It corrupts both rich and poor, the rich person, amount to no more than an ungoverned government. by having it and the poor by wanting it; it sells the country It isn’t good for (a) the person who makes the laws (b) to softness and vanity; it robs the state of all its citizens to execute them, or for the body of the people to move the by putting some of them into the service of the others and focus of its attention away from •general concerns towards putting all of them into the service of public opinion.
 
 •particular objects. Nothing is more dangerous than the That’s why a famous writer [Montesquieu] has made virtue influence of private interests in public affairs; it leads to the driving force of a republics; for none of these conditions the corruption of the legislator, which is an even worse evil could exist without virtue. But that great thinker didn’t than the abuse of the laws by the government; it makes a make all the needed distinctions, and that led him often substantial change in the state, and all reformation becomes to be inexact and sometimes to be obscure; he didn’t see impossible. A people that would never misuse governmental that because the sovereign authority is everywhere the powers would never misuse independence; a people that same, the same driving force should be at work in every would always govern well wouldn’t need to be governed. well-constituted state—more or less, it is true, depending on There never was and never will be a real democracy in the form of the government.
 
 the strict sense of the word. It’s against the natural order There is no ·other· government so subject to civil wars for the many to govern and the few to be governed. It is andinternalagitationsasdemocraticorpopulargovernment, unimaginable that the people should be continually in ses- because there is none that •has such a strong and continual sion dealing with public affairs, and obviously they couldn’t tendency to change to another form, or •that needs more set up commissions for that purpose without changing the vigilance and courage for its maintenance as it is. It is in form of the administration. a democratic system above all that the citizen should arm In fact, I can confidently lay down as a principle that himself with strength and constancy, and say every day of when the work of government is shared out among several his life what a virtuous Count Palatine said in the Polish tribunals, the less numerous ·of these· will eventually ac- parliament: ‘I prefer liberty with danger to peace with slavery’ quire the greatest authority, if only because it’s a natural [RousseauquotesthisinLatin].
 
 consequence of their ability to act quickly. Apopulationofgodscouldhaveademocraticgovernment.
 
 A government as perfect as that is not for men.
 
 34 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 35.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
