Civic religion deep-feeling peoples who were consumed by ardent love of back to ·questions about· what is right, and settle our pringlory and of their country; imagine your Christian republic ciples on this important point. [Inthis passage, ‘right’translates up against Sparta or Rome: the pious Christians will be droit,whichcanalsomean‘law’.] Therightthatthesocialcompact beaten, crushed and destroyed, before they know where they gives the sovereign over the subjects does not, we have are; or they’ll be safe only because their enemy regarded seen, include anything that isn’t good for the public.28 The them as negligible.... subjects then owe the sovereign an account of their opinions But I’m wrong to speak of a Christian republic—those only insofar as the opinions matter to the community. Now, two terms are mutually exclusive. Christianity preaches it matters very much to the community that each citizen only servitude and dependence. Its spirit is so favourable should have a religion that makes him love his duty; but to tyranny that it always profits by such a régime. Genuine that religion’s •dogmas are no concern of the state’s or of its Christians are made to be slaves, and they know it and don’t members’ except insofar as •they involve morality and the much mind: this short life counts for too little in their eyes. believer’s duties towards others. In addition to all that, a man may have any opinions he likes without that being any Christiantroopsareexcellent,wearetold. Idenyit. Show of the sovereign’s business. Having no standing in the other me an example! For my part, I don’t know of any Christian world, the sovereign has no concern with what may lie in troops. The Crusades? Without disputing the courage of the wait for its subjects in the life to come, provided they are Crusaders, I answer that far from being Christians they were good citizens in this life.
 
 the priests’ troops, they were citizens of the Church: they fought for their spiritual country, which the Church had So there’s a purely civil profession of faith, the content somehow made temporal. Properly understood, this goes of which should be fixed by the sovereign—not exactly as back to paganism: because the Gospel doesn’t establish any religious dogmas, but as social sentiments that are needed national religion, there can’t possibly be a holy war among for to be a good citizen and a faithful subject.29 While it can’t Christians.
 
 compel anyone to believe them, it can banish from the state Under the pagan emperors, the Christian soldiers were anyone who doesn’t believe them—banishing him not for fine; every Christian writer says so, and I believe it; they impiety but for being anti-social, incapable of truly loving the were honourably modelling themselves on the pagan troops. laws and justice, and if necessary sacrificing his life to his As soon as the emperors were Christian, this modelling was duty. If anyone publicly recognises these dogmas and then extinguished; and when the cross had driven out the eagle, behaves as if he doesn’t believe them, let him be punished Roman valour wholly disappeared. by death: he has committed the worst of all crimes—lying Let us now set political considerations aside and come before the law.
 
 28 ‘In the republic,’ says the Marquis d’Argenson, ‘each man is perfectly free in what doesn’t harm others.’ That is the invariable limit; I can’t define it moreexactly....
 
 29 Caesar,arguingforthedefenceinCatiline’strial,triedtoestablishthedogmathatthesoulismortal. CatoandCicero,speakingfortheprosecution, didn’t waste time in philosophising, and simply argued that Caesar had spoken like a bad citizen, pushing a doctrine that would be harmful to the state. That,andnotaproblemoftheology,waswhattheRomansenatehadtojudge.
 
 72 The Social Contract Jean-Jacques Rousseau 49.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
