paskvil.com/ sold from apothecaries’ shops. As a politician, he accomplished little, but he held various offices over a number of years in a city undergoing politicalunrest.
 
 AfterdefeatingtheGhibellines,theGuelphsdividedintotwofactions: the White Guelphs (Guelfi Bianchi) – Dante’s party, led by Vieri dei Cerchi – and the Black Guelphs (Guelfi Neri), led by Corso Donati. Although initially the split was along family lines, ideological differences rose based on opposing views of the papal role in Florentine affairs, with the Blacks supporting the Pope and the Whites wanting more freedom from Rome.
 
 InitiallytheWhiteswereinpowerandkickedouttheBlacks.
 
 In response, Pope Boniface VIII planned a military occupation of Florence. In 1301, Charles de Valois, brotherof Philip the Fairking of France, wasexpectedtovisitFlorencebecausethePopehadappointedhimpeacemaker for Tuscany. But the city’s government had treated the Pope’s ambassadors badly a few weeks before, seeking independence from papal influence. It was believed that Charles de Valois would eventually have received other unofficial instructions. So the council sent a delegation to RometoascertainthePope’sintentions. Dantewasoneofthedelegates.
 
 Exile and Death Boniface quickly dismissed the other delegates and asked Dante alone to remain in Rome. At the same time (November 1, 1301), Charles de Valois entered Florence with Black Guelphs, who in the next six days destroyed much of the city and killed many of their enemies. A new Black Guelph government was installed and Messer Cante dei Gabrielli di Gubbio was appointed Podesta` of Florence. Dante was condemned to exile for two years, and ordered to pay a large fine. The poet was still in Rome, where the Pope had “suggested” he stay, and was therefore considered an absconder. He did not pay the fine, in part because he believed he was not guilty,andinpartbecauseallhisassetsinFlorencehadbeenseizedbythe Black Guelphs. He was condemned to perpetual exile, and if he returned toFlorencewithoutpayingthefine,hecouldbeburnedatthestake.
 
 The poet took part in several attempts by the White Guelphs to regain power, but these failed due to treachery. Dante, bitter at the treatment hereceivedfromhisenemies,alsogrewdisgustedwiththeinfightingand ineffectivenessofhiserstwhileallies,andvowedtobecomeapartyofone.
 
 At this point, he began sketching the foundation for the Divine Comedy, a work in 100 cantos, divided into three books of thirty-three cantos each, withasingleintroductorycanto.
 
