Introduction xxi ‘kingdom of culture’. It is crucial to recognize that Du Bois, in drawing on a variety of sources for the musical excerpts,26 chooses not to include the lyrics to the spirituals, which often serve to underline the arguments of the chapters: Booker T. Washington’s idealism is echoed in the otherworldly salvation hoped for in ‘A Great Camp-Meeting in the Promised Land’, for example; likewise the determined call for education in ‘Of the Training of Black Men’ is matched by the strident words of ‘March On’. Du Bois may withhold the lyrics to mark another barrier for the reader, in another form––to suggest, again, the inner life ‘within the Veil’, a mode of knowledge and ‘striving’ that remains difficult to reach, if not inaccessible, using the imperfect and limited means of white culture (in this instance, the European technology of musical notation).
 
 Even if they are songs of sorrow, though, the spirituals also offer hope, ‘a faith in the ultimate justice of things’ (p. 175)––which is also faith in the possibility in a space beyond or ‘above the Veil’ (p. 76), which is another recurring theme of The Souls of Black Folk, whether in its invocation of universal truth and artistic universality in Chapter VI (‘I sit with Shakespeare and he winces not’, p. 76), or in its vision of Du Bois’s son, dead but ‘escaped’ from the bonds of the‘color-line’. Because the music encapsulates this potential, ‘The Sorrow Songs’ concludes with yet another argument against the ‘arrogance’ of human prejudice: The silently growing assumption of this age is that the probation of races is past, and that the backward races of to-day are of proven inefficiency and not worth the saving. Such an assumption is the arrogance of peoples irreverent toward Time and ignorant of the deeds of men. ... So woefully unorganized is sociological knowledge that the meaning of progress, the meaning of ‘swift’ and ‘slow’ in human doing, and the limits of human 26 The sources of Du Bois’s musical epigraphs have been identified and discussed at length both in Ronald M. Radano, ‘Soul Texts and the Blackness of Folk’,Modernism/ Modernity,2/1 (Jan. 1995),85–7, and in Eric J. Sundquist, To Wake the Nations: Race in the Making of American Literature (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1993), 490–525. Du Bois seems mainly to have drawn on transcriptions and settings by Theodore F. Seward in the following sources: G. D. Pike, The Jubilee Singers and their Campaign for Twenty Thousand Dollars (Boston: Lee and Shepard, 1873); J. B. T. Marsh, The Story of the Jubilee Singers, with their Songs (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin and Co., 1880);Jubilee Songs: As Sung by the Jubilee Singers, of Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn., under the Auspices of the American Missionary Association (New York: Bigelow and Main,1872); and R. Nathaniel Dett (ed.), Religious Folk-Songs of the Negro as Sung at Hampton Institute (1874; repr. Hampton, Va.: Hampton Institute Press, 1927).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
