He put his arm about her and let her passion of tears spend itself on his shoulder.
 
 Long they stood together, peering over the gray unresting water.
 
 “John,” she said, “does it make every one––unhappy when they study and learn lots of things?” He paused and smiled. “I am afraid it does,” he said.
 
 “And, John, are you glad you studied?” “Yes,” came the answer, slowly but positively.
 
 She watched the flickering lights upon the sea, and said thoughtfully, “I wish I was unhappy,––and––and,” putting both arms about his neck, “I think I am, a little, John.” It was several days later that John walked up to the Judge’s house to ask for the privilege of teaching the Negro school. The Judge himself met him at the front door, stared a little hard at him, and said brusquely, “Go’round to the kitchen door, John, and wait.” Sitting on the kitchen steps, John stared at the corn, thoroughly perplexed.
 
 What on earth had come over him? Every step he made offended some one. He had come to save his people, and before he left the depot he had hurt them. He sought to teach them at the church, and had outraged their deepest feelings. He had schooled himself to be respectful to the Judge, and then blundered into his front door. And all the time he had meant right,––and yet, and yet, somehow he found it so hard and strange to fit his old surroundings again, to find his place in the world about him. He could not remember that he used to have any difficulty in the past, when life was glad and gay.
 
 The world seemed smooth and easy then. Perhaps,––but his sister came to the kitchen door just then and said the Judge awaited him.
 
 The Judge sat in the dining-room amid his morning’s mail, and he did not ask John to sit down. He plunged squarely into the business.
 
 “You’ve come for the school, I suppose. Well, John, I want to speak to you plainly. You know I’m a friend to your people. I’ve helped you and your family, and would have done more if you hadn’t got the notion of going off. Now I like the colored people, and sympathize with all their reasonable aspirations; but you and I both know, John, that in this country the Negro must remain subordinate, and can never expect to be the equal of white men. In their place, your people can be honest and respectful; and God knows, I’ll do what I can to Of the Coming of John 163 help them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
