Introduction xv attended by a number of luminaries, including the Haitian politician Benito Sylvain, the former slave Henry ‘Box’ Brown, and the African American feminist Anna Julia Cooper. In the final sessions of the conference in Westminster Town Hall, Du Bois gave a speech titled ‘To the Nations of the World’ that opened with a remarkable paragraph: In the metropolis of the modern world, in this closing year of the nineteenth century there has been assembled a congress of men and women of African blood, to deliberate solemnly upon the present situation and outlook of the darker races of mankind. The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the colour line, the question as to how far differences of race ... are going to be made, hereafter, the basis of denying to over half the world the right of sharing to their utmost ability the opportunities and privileges of modern civilisation.15 In The Souls of Black Folk, it is crucial to keep in mind that the ‘color-line’ for Du Bois is never solely a matter of racial prejudice in the United States; as it is phrased in the opening sentence of ‘Of the Dawn of Freedom’, the term invokes ‘the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men in Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea’ (p. 15). Or, as Du Bois writes in passing in the chapter on Booker T. Washington, ‘the recent course of the United States toward weaker and darker peoples in the West Indies, Hawaii, and the Philippines’ should be a reminder that the ‘color-line’ is global:‘for where in the world may we go and be safe from lying and brute force?’ (p. 40). This anti-imperialist sensibility, which is implicit rather than foregrounded in The Souls of Black Folk, would become pivotal in Du Bois’s work after the First World War, in books such as Darkwater (1920) and Dark Princess (1928); it is one of the main issues that Du Bois underlines in his preface to the anniversary edition of The Souls of Black Folk published in 1953.16 The literary scholar Robert Stepto has noted the ‘hortatory quality’17 of Souls: its patterns of address to the reader (implicitly framed as white American), in a tone that ranges from the solicitous and genteel––as with the invocation of ‘you, Gentle Reader’ in the 15 Du Bois, ‘To the Nations of the World’, in W. E. B. Du Bois: A Reader, ed. David Levering Lewis (New York: Henry Holt, 1995),639.
 
 16 W. E. B. Du Bois, ‘Fifty Years After’,The Souls of Black Folk (New York: Blue Heron, 1953), pp. ix–xi. This preface is included in Appendix III to this volume.
 
 17 Stepto, From Behind the Veil,55.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
