xiv Introduction longing to attain self-conscious manhood, to merge his double self into a better and truer self. (pp. 8–9) There are passages in The Souls of Black Folk (for example, the sentences on the ‘double life’ of the American Negro towards the end of‘Of the Faith of the Fathers’, p. 136) that retain some of the sense of‘vacillation and contradiction’ expressed in ‘The Conservation of Races’. But there is something more complex announced in ‘Of Our Spiritual Strivings’, because double consciousness is at once a deprivation (an inability to see oneself except ‘through the eyes of others’) and a gift (an endowment of ‘second-sight’, that seems to allow a deeper or redoubled comprehension of the complexities of ‘this American world’). In this reformulation, we are reminded that ‘alienation––raised to a conscious level, cultivated, and directed–– has revolutionary potential’.13 And we are provided with a vision of the goal: a ‘merging’ of these ‘unreconciled strivings’ in a ‘better and truer self’, allowed to participate as a ‘co-worker in the kingdom of culture’ (p. 9).
 
 The title of the book itself announces a departure from the rhetoric of race, derived from nineteenth-century social Darwinism, to the spiritual vocabulary of German Romanticism. As the biographer David Levering Lewis points out, ‘the German influences are unmistakable with their suggestion of materializing spirit and dialectical struggle, the whole surging process coming to concretion in das Volk––a mighty nation with a unique soul. It is as though the voices of Schopenhauer and Sojourner Truth were blended.’14 Rather than the ‘conservation of races’, Du Bois’s book argues (in ‘Of the Wings of Atalanta’) that universities must be developed in the South to develop ‘broad ideals and true culture’, the ‘conservation of soul from sordid aims and petty passions’ (p. 60).
 
 The other key term introduced by The Souls of Black Folk arises in the second sentence of the ‘Forethought’, in another memorable formulation: ‘the problem of the Twentieth Century is the problem of the color-line’ (p. 3). Du Bois first used this phrase in July 1900, when he attended the first Pan-African Conference in London, organized by Trinidadian lawyer Henry Sylvester Williams and 13 Thomas C. Holt, ‘The Political Uses of Alienation: W. E. B. Du Bois on Politics, Race, and Culture, 1903–1940’,American Quarterly42/2 (June 1990),306.
 
 14 Lewis, Du Bois: Biography,282.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
