When at last a soft sorrow crept across the violins, there came to him the vision of a far-off home,––the great eyes of his sister, and the dark drawn face of his mother. And his heart sank below the waters, even as the sea-sand sinks by the shores of Altamaha, only to be lifted aloft again with that last ethereal wail of the swan that quivered and faded away into the sky.
 
 It left John sitting so silent and rapt that he did not for some time notice the usher tapping him lightly on the shoulder and saying politely, “Will you step this way, please, sir?” A little surprised, he arose quickly at the last tap, and, turning to leave his seat, looked full into the face of the fair-haired young man. For the first time the young man recognized his dark boyhood playmate, and John knew that it was the Judge’s son. The white John started, lifted his hand, and then froze into his chair; the black John smiled lightly, then grimly, and followed the usher down the aisle. The manager was sorry, very, very sorry,––but he explained that some mistake had been made in selling the gentleman a seat already disposed of; he would refund the money, of course,––and indeed felt the matter keenly, and so forth, and––before he had finished John was gone, walking hurriedly across the square and down the broad streets, and as he passed the park he buttoned his coat and said, “John Jones, you’re a natural-born fool.” Then he went to his lodgings and wrote a letter, and tore it up; he wrote another, and threw it in the fire.
 
 Then he seized a scrap of paper and wrote: “Dear Mother and Sister––I am coming––John.” “Perhaps,” said John, as he settled himself on the train, “perhaps I am to blame myself in struggling against my manifest destiny simply because it looks hard and unpleasant. Here is my duty to Altamaha plain before me; perhaps they’ll let me help settle the Negro problems there,––perhaps they won’t. ‘I will go in to the King, which is not according to the law; and if I perish, I perish.’”* And then he mused and dreamed, and planned a life-work; and the train flew south.
 
 Down in Altamaha, after seven long years, all the world knew John was coming. The homes were scrubbed and scoured,––above all, one; the gardens and yards had an unwonted trimness, and Jennie bought a new gingham. With some finesse and negotiation, all 160 The Souls of Black Folk the dark Methodists and Presbyterians were induced to join in a monster welcome at the Baptist Church; and as the day drew near, warm discussions arose on every corner as to the exact extent and nature of John’s accomplishments.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
