The term came more broadly to refer to legal segregation during the last decade of the nineteenth century, when the integration efforts of the Reconstruction era were abandoned and many states in the South adopted laws enforcing the separation of the races in public spaces.
 
 Segregated train travel is mentioned again in Chapter VII, ‘Of the Black Belt’, in the famous paragraph where Du Bois ushers his reader into the black world of the rural South: ‘If you wish to ride with me you must come into the “Jim Crow Car.” ... Of course this car is not so good as the other, but it is fairly clean and comfortable. The discomfort lies chiefly in the hearts of those four black men yonder––and in mine’ (pp. 78–9).
 
 54 Whittier: the epigraph is the sixth stanza of Howard at Atlanta (1869), by John Greenleaf Whittier. The musical excerpt which follows comes from the Negro spiritual ‘The Rocks and Mountains’.
 
 réclame: (French) renown, acclaim; an appetite for publicity.
 
 55 Bœotia: the Greek province that was home to Atalanta.
 
 Atalanta: in Greek mythology, the beautiful huntress who promised to marry the man who could outrun her. She was finally defeated by Hippomenes, who tricked her by dropping three golden apples that she stopped to pick up.
 
 Bourse: (French) the Parisian stock exchange.
 
 Third Estate: European feudal society was considered to be divided into three stratifications or ‘estates’: the First Estate (the clergy), the Second Estate (the nobility), and the Third Estate (the bourgeoisie).
 
 56 parvenu: (French) one who has achieved financial success but who lacks the social graces of his acquired standing.
 
 58 Mammonism: the immoral or unscrupulous pursuit of wealth.
 
 trivium and quadrivium: in the structure of the medieval university in Europe, the trivium (which includes grammar, logic, and rhetoric) is the lower group of the seven liberal arts. The quadrivium (which includes arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy) is the upper division.
 
 59 ‘Entbehren sollst du, sollst entbehren’: (German) ‘Renounce shalt thou, thou shalt renounce.’ From Faust (1808) by Goethe.
 
 from Academus to Cambridge: Academus was the school founded by Plato in387bc. Cambridge University is an elite university in England.
 
 63 (Fitzgerald): the epigraph comes from The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam (1859), the works of the Persian poet Khayyam (who lived c.1000 ce) translated by Edward FitzGerald. The musical excerpt which follows comes from the Negro spiritual ‘March On’.
 
 tertium quid: (Latin) third state, something of ambiguous status; literally ‘third something’.
 
 65 Dr. Johnson: the English lexicographer, poet, and essayist Samuel Johnson (1709–84), best known for his path-breaking Dictionary of the English Language (1755).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
