“No, no––but Sally, our helper, told my wife a lot of nonsense. Also, I don’t need to hear: a Black person who won’t say ‘sir’ to a white man, or––”  

“Who is this John?” the son asked.  

“That’s little black John, Peggy’s son––your old playmate.” The young man’s face turned red with anger, then he laughed.  

“Oh,” he said, “it’s the Black guy who tried to sit next to the lady I was with––” But Judge Henderson didn’t want to hear more. He had been annoyed all day, and now he stood up, said a quiet curse, grabbed his hat and cane, and walked straight to the schoolhouse.  

For John, it had been tough getting the school going in the old, falling-apart building. The Black community was split for and against him, parents didn’t care much, the kids were often dirty and didn’t come regularly, and they didn’t have many books, pencils, or slates. Still, he kept trying and finally saw some hope. More kids came to school, they looked a bit cleaner this week, and even the worst readers were making some progress. So John settled in with fresh patience that afternoon.  

“Now, Mandy,” he said happily, “that’s better; but don’t break up your words like that: ‘If––the––man––goes.’ Even your little brother wouldn’t tell a story that way, would he?”  

“No, sir, he can’t talk.”  

“All right; now let’s try again: ‘If the man––’”  

“John!” The whole class was surprised, and the teacher stood up as the red, angry face of the Judge showed in the open door.  

“John, this school is closed. You kids can go home and get to work. The white people of Altamaha aren’t paying for Black folks to be filled with disrespect and lies.  

Get out! I’ll lock the door myself.”  

Back at the big house, the tall young son wandered around after his father left suddenly. There wasn’t much to do inside; the books were old and boring, the local newspaper was dull, and the women had gone to rest with headaches and sewing. He tried to nap, but it was too hot. So he walked outside into the fields, complaining sadly, “Good Lord! How long will this imprisonment last?”
