’ I have had a chance to read it in part for the first time in years. I find in chapters VII, VIII and IX, five incidental references to Jews. I recall that years ago, Jacob Schiff wrote me criticising these references and that I denied any thought of race or religious prejudice and promised to go over the passages in future editions. These editions succeeded each other without any consultation with me, and evidently the matter slipped out of my mind.
 
 As I re-read these words today, I see that harm might come if they were allowed to stand as they are. First of all, I am not at all sure that the foreign exploiters to whom I referred in my study of the Black Belt, were in fact Jews. I took the word of my informants, and I am now wondering if in fact Russian Jews in any numbers were in Georgia at the time. But even if they were, what I was condemning was the exploitation and not the race nor religion. And I did not, when writing, realize that by stressing the name of the group instead of what some members of the [group] may have done, I was unjustly maligning a people in exactly the same way my folk were then and are now falsely accused.
 
 In view of this and because of the even greater danger of injustice now than then, I want in the event of re-publication [to] change these passages.
 
 When Du Bois specified some of the revisions to be made in a memorandum to Blue Heron dated 16 March 1953, he drafted a paragraph to be added to the end of Chapter VII, ‘Of the Black Belt’, which read as follows: In the foregoing chapter, ‘Jews’ have been mentioned five times, and the late Jacob Schiff once complained that this gave an impression of antiSemitism. This at the time I stoutly denied; but as I read the passages again in the light of subsequent history, I see how I laid myself open to this possible misapprehension. What, of course, I meant to condemn was exploitation of black labor and that it was in this country and at that time in part a matter of immigrant Jews, was incidental and not essential. My inner sympathy with the Jewish people was expressed better in the last paragraph of page 152. But this illustrates how easily one slips into unconscious condemnation of a whole group.
 
 This paragraph was not added to the 1953 edition, presumably because the references in question had been changed throughout the text.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
