I was foolish to think that this little soul should grow up trapped and damaged inside the Veil! I should have known that deep, otherworldly look in his eyes was seeing far beyond the small world around him. In the way his curly head held itself, wasn’t there the same wild pride his father barely kept from showing? But why, really, should a Black person have pride when so many others have been forced down and humiliated? Well done, my boy, before people called your dreams rude, said your goals were impossible, and made you bow your head. It’s better for me to live in this quiet emptiness than for you to suffer so much.

These are just empty words; maybe he could have handled his burden better than we did—and maybe it would have felt lighter one day. Because this can’t be the end. Surely a powerful new day will come to lift the Veil and free those trapped inside. Not for me—I’ll die still chained—but for young souls who haven’t known darkness and will wake up to the light; a day when people ask workers not “Are you white?” but “Can you do the job?” When people ask artists not “Are you Black?” but “Do you have skill?” That day might come, far in the future. But right now, on that dark shore inside the Veil, the same sad voice cries, “You must give up!” And I have given up everything at that command, without much complaining—except for that beautiful young body lying cold and still in the home I made.

If someone had to go, why not me? Why can’t I rest from this endless pain and sleep through this constant waking? Didn’t Time hold the world in his hands when he took my boy? And isn’t my time running out? Are there so many workers that this young life’s promise can be thrown away? So many poor people of my race grow up without parents; but Love sat by his cradle, and Wisdom was ready to speak in his ear. Maybe now he understands true love and doesn’t need to be wise.

Sleep now, child—sleep until I sleep and wake to the sound of a baby’s voice and the steady footsteps of little feet—beyond the Veil.
