what wings must Atalanta have to flit over all this hollow and hill, through sour wood and sullen water, and by the red waste of sun-baked clay! How fleet must Atalanta be if she will not be tempted by gold to profane the Sanctuary!
 
 The Sanctuary of our fathers has, to be sure, few Gods,––some sneer, “all too few.” There is the thrifty Mercury of New England, Pluto of the North, and Ceres of the West; and there, too, is the halfforgotten Apollo of the South, under whose ægis the maiden ran,–– and as she ran she forgot him, even as there in Bœotia Venus was forgot. She forgot the old ideal of the Southern gentleman,––that new-world heir of the grace and courtliness of patrician, knight, and noble; forgot his honor with his foibles, his kindliness with his carelessness, and stooped to apples of gold,––to men busier and sharper, thriftier and more unscrupulous. Golden apples are beautiful––I remember the lawless days of boyhood, when orchards in crimson and gold tempted me over fence and field––and, too, the merchant who has dethroned the planter is no despicable parvenu.* Work and wealth are the mighty levers to lift this old new land; thrift and toil and saving are the highways to new hopes and new possibilities; and yet the warning is needed lest the wily Hippomenes tempt Atalanta to thinking that golden apples are the goal of racing, and not mere incidents by the way.
 
 Atlanta must not lead the South to dream of material prosperity as the touchstone of all success; already the fatal might of this idea is beginning to spread; it is replacing the finer type of Southerner with vulgar money-getters; it is burying the sweeter beauties of Southern life beneath pretence and ostentation. For every social ill the panacea of Wealth has been urged,––wealth to overthrow the remains of the slave feudalism; wealth to raise the “cracker” Third Estate; wealth to employ the black serfs, and the prospect of wealth to keep them working; wealth as the end and aim of politics, and as the legal tender for law and order; and, finally, instead of Truth, Beauty, and Goodness, wealth as the ideal of the Public School.
 
 Not only is this true in the world which Atlanta typifies, but it is threatening to be true of a world beneath and beyond that world,–– the Black World beyond the Veil. To-day it makes little difference to Atlanta, to the South, what the Negro thinks or dreams or wills. In the soul-life of the land he is to-day, and naturally will long remain, unthought of, half forgotten; and yet when he does come to think Of the Wings of Atalanta 57 and will and do for himself,––and let no man dream that day will never come,––then the part he plays will not be one of sudden learning, but words and thoughts he has been taught to lisp in his racechildhood.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
