Mrs. Browning: The text is from A Vision of Poets (1844) by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. The music that follows is from the Negro spiritual ‘I’m A Rolling’.

Tertium quid: See the note on page 63 above.

Ipso facto: This Latin phrase means ‘by the fact itself’.

Phillis Wheatley and Sam Hose: Phillis Wheatley (around 1753–84) published a book of poems called Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral (1773) while she was still a slave. Sam Hose was lynched in 1899 in Palmetto, Georgia; see the note on page 77 above.

‘That mind and soul ... vaster’: These lines are from the prologue to In Memoriam (1850) by Alfred Lord Tennyson.

Fiona MacLeod: The quote is from ‘Dim Face of Beauty’ by William Sharp, who used the pen name Fiona MacLeod. The music that follows is from the Negro spiritual ‘Steal Away Home’.

Delphi and Endor: Delphi was the site of an ancient Greek temple for Apollo. Endor is the name of a medium who, in the Bible (1 Samuel 28:7–14), talks to the ghost of Samuel.

The Bethel of Philadelphia: The Mother Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church, started in 1794 by Richard Allen, was the first black church in a city in the United States.

The great African Methodist Church ... Colored Methodist: The African Methodist Episcopal Church began in Philadelphia in 1787. The Zion Church broke away from it to form the African Methodist Zion Church. The Colored Methodist Episcopal Church started in Jackson, Tennessee, in 1870.

The mysterious Obi worship: A religious practice from African traditions, also known as ‘obeah’ in Jamaica.

Fierce Maroons, the Danish blacks: See the note on page 37 above.

‘Children, we all ... appear!’: Lines from the Negro spiritual ‘Children, We All Shall Be Free’.

‘Uncle Tom’: Refers to a character in Harriet Beecher Stowe’s book Uncle Tom’s Cabin (1852).

‘O Freedom ... be free’: Lines from the Negro spiritual ‘O Freedom’.

Dum vivimus, vivamus: This Latin phrase means ‘While we live, let us live.’

Swinburne: The poem is from Itylus (1866) by Algernon Charles Swinburne. The music that follows is from the Negro spiritual ‘I Hope My Mother Will Be There’.

‘Unto you a child is born’: This refers to a prophecy about the Messiah in Isaiah 9:6: ‘For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given’.
