All this is bitter hard; and many a man and city and people have found in it excuse for sulking, and brooding, and listless waiting.
 
 Such are not men of the sturdier make; they of Atlanta turned resolutely toward the future; and that future held aloft vistas of purple and gold:––Atlanta, Queen of the cotton kingdom; Atlanta, Gateway to the Land of the Sun; Atlanta, the new Lachesis, spinner of web and woof for the world. So the city crowned her hundred hills with factories, and stored her shops with cunning handiwork, and stretched long iron ways to greet the busy Mercury in his coming.
 
 And the Nation talked of her striving.
 
 Perhaps Atlanta was not christened for the winged maiden of dull Bœotia,* you know the tale,––how swarthy Atalanta,* tall and wild, would marry only him who out-raced her; and how the wily Hippomenes laid three apples of gold in the way. She fled like a shadow, paused, startled over the first apple, but even as he stretched his hand, fled again; hovered over the second, then, slipping from his hot grasp, flew over river, vale, and hill; but as she lingered over the third, his arms fell round her, and looking on each other, the blazing passion of their love profaned the sanctuary of Love, and they were cursed. If Atlanta be not named for Atalanta, she ought to have been.
 
 Atalanta is not the first or the last maiden whom greed of gold has led to defile the temple of Love; and not maids alone, but men in the race of life, sink from the high and generous ideals of youth to the gambler’s code of the Bourse;* and in all our Nation’s striving is not the Gospel of Work befouled by the Gospel of Pay? So common is this that one-half think it normal; so unquestioned, that we almost fear to question if the end of racing is not gold, if the aim of man is not rightly to be rich. And if this is the fault of America, how dire a danger lies before a new land and a new city, lest Atlanta, stooping for mere gold, shall find that gold accursed!
 
 It was no maiden’s idle whim that started this hard racing; a fearful wilderness lay about the feet of that city after the War,––feudalism, poverty, the rise of the Third Estate,* serfdom, the re-birth of Law and Order, and above and between all, the Veil of Race. How heavy a 56 The Souls of Black Folk journey for weary feet!
 

 
(Simplified)
 
