They are not happy, these black men whom we meet throughout this region. There is little of the joyous abandon and playfulness which we are wont to associate with the plantation Negro. At best, the natural good-nature is edged with complaint or has changed into sullenness and gloom. And now and then it blazes forth in veiled but hot anger. I remember one big redeyed black whom we met by the roadside. Forty-five years he had labored on this farm, beginning with nothing, and still having nothing. To be sure, he had given four children a common-school training, and perhaps if the new fence-law had not allowed unfenced crops in West Dougherty he might have raised a little stock and kept ahead. As it is, he is hopelessly in debt, disappointed, and embittered. He stopped us to inquire after the black boy in Albany, whom it was said a policeman had shot and killed for loud talking on the sidewalk. And then he said slowly: “Let a white man touch me, and he dies; I don’t boast this,––I don’t say it around loud, or before the children,––but I mean it. I’ve seen them whip my father and my old mother in them cotton-rows till the blood ran; by––” and we passed on.
 
 Now Sears, whom we met next lolling under the chubby oaktrees, was of quite different fibre. Happy?––Well, yes; he laughed and flipped pebbles, and thought the world was as it was. He had worked here twelve years and has nothing but a mortgaged mule.
 
 Children? Yes, seven; but they hadn’t been to school this year,–– couldn’t afford books and clothes, and couldn’t spare their work.
 
 There go part of them to the fields now,––three big boys astride mules, and a strapping girl with bare brown legs. Careless ignorance and laziness here, fierce hate and vindictiveness there;––these are the extremes of the Negro problem which we met that day, and we scarce knew which we preferred.
 
 Here and there we meet distinct characters quite out of the ordinary. One came out of a piece of newly cleared ground, making a wide detour to avoid the snakes. He was an old, hollow-cheeked man, with a drawn and characterful brown face. He had a sort of self-contained quaintness and rough humor impossible to describe; a certain cynical earnestness that puzzled one. “The niggers were jealous of me over on the other place,” he said, “and so me and the old woman begged this piece of woods, and I cleared it up myself. Made nothing for two 90 The Souls of Black Folk years, but I reckon I’ve got a crop now.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
