But when they want to change how things are, boss white men around, marry white women, and sit in my living room, then, by God! we’ll stop them, even if we have to hurt every Black person in the country. Now, John, the question is, with your education and Northern ideas, are you going to accept things as they are and teach Black people to be loyal workers like your fathers were? I knew your father, John, he worked for my brother, and he was a good Black man.

Well—well, are you going to be like him, or are you going to try to spread foolish ideas about rising up and being equal, which would only make people unhappy?” “I’m going to accept the situation, Judge Henderson,” John replied quickly, which the old man noticed. The judge paused a moment, then said shortly, “Very well, we’ll give you a chance. Good morning.” 

It was a whole month after the Negro school opened that the other John came home, tall, happy, and confident. His mother cried, his sisters sang. The whole white town was happy. The Judge was proud, and it was a good sight to see the two of them walking down Main Street together. But things didn’t always go well between them, because the younger man didn’t hide his dislike for the small town and clearly wanted to move to New York. 

The Judge’s biggest dream was to see his son become mayor of Altamaha, a representative in the legislature, and maybe even governor of Georgia. So, they often argued. “Good heavens, father,” the younger man would say after dinner, lighting a cigar by the fireplace, “you don’t really expect me to stay here forever in this boring town full of mud and Black people?” “I do,” the Judge answered shortly; and that day, it looked like he was going to say more, but neighbors started coming in to see his son, and the talk changed.

“Did you hear that John is shaking things up at the Black school?” the postmaster said after a pause.

“What now?” asked the Judge quickly.

“Oh, nothing special, just his big attitude and acting like he’s better than others. I heard he’s been giving talks about the French Revolution, equality, and stuff like that. He’s what I call a dangerous Black man.”

“Have you heard him say anything out of line?”
