Only about 1 out of 100 Black students are in high school or college, and this number has stayed about the same for the last 20 years. To have the same number of Black students in higher education as the rest of the country, this number needs to be five times bigger. If this is true for high school and college, then Black students are getting less than one-tenth of the college education they should.

So, it’s wrong to say Black people get too much training! We need Black teachers for Black schools, and we need good colleges and training schools to prepare them. This is what higher education for Black people is all about, and it must happen.

Also, after learning basics in school, a carpenter needs special skills to do his job well. For this, trade schools are needed.

Trade schools aren’t as simple as people thought. At first, the idea was that these schools would teach practical skills for free to those willing to work. They were supposed to make money by doing real work and teach trades. While this idea was good, it didn’t work in real life. It was found that if schools spent enough time and materials to really teach trades, they couldn’t make money from their work. Many schools tried this and almost went broke.

It was also found that you can teach a boy a trade just by following steps without really helping him learn fully. But there is real value in teaching a boy to use his hands and eyes, even if he doesn’t learn a whole trade. Because of this, trade schools have changed a lot in the last ten years. The idea of making money from the work done in school is becoming less important. Some schools still have workshops and farms that earn money, and students sometimes help build school buildings and equipment. But now, people see that the real goal of education is to help the student, not to make products. So, trade schools focus on giving boys good training, no matter what it costs.

Even with these changes, there are still problems. Modern industry has changed a lot since the war, and teaching trades has become more complicated.
