The two pieces are both attempts to make sense of the position of peoples of African descent in the world at the turn of the century, and to consider the proper role of the African American intellectual as an advocate for, and leader of, his people. Although there are a number of echoes in phrase and theme, the two pieces differ markedly in approach. In recent years, some scholars have argued that ‘The Conservation of Races’ gives evidence of Du Bois’s commitment to a problematic understanding of ‘race’ grounded in biological essence.11 Although Du Bois notes the vagueness of the term, he nonetheless considers the ‘race idea’ to provide what he calls ‘efficiency as the vastest and most ingenious invention for human progress’, seemingly because it inspires ‘growth’ through collective pursuit and achievement. Throughout the piece, Du Bois struggles awkwardly to theorize race beyond ‘scientific definition’, in a manner that would admit differences of ‘common blood, descent and physical peculiarities’ but also attend to the other ‘subtle forces’ that have ‘separated men into groups’. He ultimately fails to explain these ‘deeper differences’, which he describes in vague terms as ‘spiritual, psychical, differences––undoubtedly based on the physical, but infinitely transcending them’ (p. 182). Here, the confrontation of racial difference leaves the American Negro in a state of ‘selfquestioning and hesitation’ with regard to his proper relation to the United States: Here, then, is the dilemma, and it is a puzzling one, I admit. No Negro who has given earnest thought to the situation of his people in America has failed, at some time in life, to find himself at these cross-roads; has failed to ask himself at some time: What, after all, am I? Am I an American or am I a Negro? Can I be both? Or is it my duty to cease to be a Negro as soon as possible and be an American? If I strive as a Negro, am I not perpetuating the very cleft that threatens and separates Black and White 11 For this debate, see Anthony Appiah, ‘The Uncompleted Argument: Du Bois and the Illusion of Race’, in Henry Louis Gates, Jr. (ed.), ‘Race’, Writing, and Difference (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1986),21–37; and the responses to Appiah in Bernard W. Bell, Emily Grosholz, and James B. Stewart (eds.), W. E. B. Du Bois on Race and Culture: Philosophy, Politics, and Poetics (New York: Routledge, 1996), esp. Lucius Outlaw, ‘“Conserve” Races? In Defense of W. E. B. Du Bois’, 15–38; see also Alys Weinbaum, Wayward Reproductions: Genealogies of Race and Nation in Transatlantic Modern Thought (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2004),226–8.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
