A young black fellow sat in it driving listlessly, his elbows on his knees. His dark-faced wife sat beside him, stolid, silent.
 
 “Hello!” cried my driver,––he has a most impudent way of addressing these people, though they seem used to it,––“what have you got there?” “Meat and meal,” answered the man, stopping. The meat lay uncovered in the bottom of the wagon,––a great thin side of fat pork covered with salt; the meal was in a white bushel bag.
 
 “What did you pay for that meat?” “Ten cents a pound.” It could have been bought for six or seven cents cash.
 
 “And the meal?” “Two dollars.” One dollar and ten cents is the cash price in town.
 
 Here was a man paying five dollars for goods which he could have bought for three dollars cash, and raised for one dollar or one dollar and a half.
 
 Yet it is not wholly his fault. The Negro farmer started behind,–– started in debt. This was not his choosing, but the crime of this happy-go-lucky nation which goes blundering along with its Reconstruction tragedies, its Spanish war interludes and Philippine matinees, just as though God really were dead. Once in debt, it is no easy matter for a whole race to emerge.
 
 In the year of low-priced cotton, 1898, out of three hundred tenant families one hundred and seventy-five ended their year’s work in debt to the extent of fourteen thousand dollars; fifty cleared nothing, and the remaining seventy-five made a total profit of sixteen hundred dollars. The net indebtedness of the black tenant families of the whole county must have been at least sixty thousand dollars. In a more prosperous year the situation is far better; but on the average the majority of tenants end the year even, or in debt, which means that they work for board and clothes. Such an economic organization is radically wrong. Whose is the blame?
 
 The underlying causes of this situation are complicated but discernible. And one of the chief, outside the carelessness of the nation in letting the slave start with nothing, is the widespread opinion among the merchants and employers of the Black Belt that only by the slavery of debt can the Negro be kept at work. Without doubt, some pressure was necessary at the beginning of the free-labor Of the Quest of the Golden Fleece 103 system to keep the listless and lazy at work; and even to-day the mass of the Negro laborers need stricter guardianship than most Northern laborers.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
