Introduction xi better the condition of former slaves during the Reconstruction era. Chapter III, ‘Of Mr. Booker T. Washington and Others’, is an unsparing critique of the accommodationist politics of the most powerful black leader of the period, especially with regard to his emphasis on industrial training for blacks in the South. The next two chapters escort the reader ‘within and without the Veil’, with a portrait of black rural life in Tennessee (based on Du Bois’s experiences as a college student working two summers as a schoolteacher), and an examination of Atlanta, warning against the ‘lust for gold’: ‘Atlanta must not lead the South to dream of material prosperity as the touchstone of all success’ (p. 56). Chapter VI, ‘Of the Training of Black Men’, amplifies Du Bois’s central argument for the importance of higher education––black colleges and universities devoted to a liberal arts curriculum rather than simply the trade instruction favoured by Washington––in the uplift of the population. The next three chapters, rich with detail and the transcribed voices of individual African Americans in Dougherty County, Georgia, offer a powerful indictment of the impact of debt, racism, and segregation on the ‘Black Belt’ of the South. Chapters X to XII introduce the reader to the ‘deeper recesses’ of black life ‘within the Veil’:‘Of the Faith of the Fathers’ emphasizes the crucial role of the black church, the‘first Afro-American institution’ and the ‘expression of the inner ethical life of a people’ (pp. 132,133), while in ‘Of the Passing of the First-Born’, Du Bois offers a poignant eulogy to his own infant son, who had died of diphtheria in 1899, as an instance of a broader black ‘human sorrow’; Chapter XII, a biography of Alexander Crummell, pays tribute to the nineteenth-century black intellectual who influenced Du Bois most deeply. The Souls of Black Folk concludes with a short story, ‘Of the Coming of John’, which returns in tragic tones to the themes of Chapters VI and IX, and a magisterial interpretation of the Negro spirituals or ‘Sorrow Songs’, for Du Bois the pinnacle of American cultural achievement.
 
 One way to gain a sense of the depth of revision Du Bois undertook in assembling Souls is to compare the first chapter, ‘Of Our Spiritual Strivings’, with the speech ‘The Conservation of Races’, included in this edition as Appendix I. ‘The Conservation of Races’ was delivered in March 1897 at the first meeting of the American Negro Academy, an organization aiming to promote black scholarly achievement that had been founded by Crummell. In August of the xii Introduction same year, Du Bois published ‘Strivings of the Negro People’, the essay which he would revise into the first chapter of Souls.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
