‘The Whole Duty of Man’ was a religious book published without saying who wrote it in 1658.

The phrase ‘... bear the whips ... unworthy takes’ comes from Shakespeare’s play Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 1.

The words ‘those heart-wrung talents’ refer to a story called the Parable of the Talents, found in the Bible in Matthew 25:21.

Mrs. Browning wrote the quote at the start of the passage. It is from her work called A Romance of the Ganges (1838). The music that follows is from a Black spiritual song called ‘I’ll Hear the Trumpet Sound’, which is also known as ‘You May Bury Me in the East’.

The music from Lohengrin’s swan is the introduction to an opera by Richard Wagner called Lohengrin, written in 1850.

The line ‘I will go in ... I perish’ is from the Bible, Esther 4:16.

The words ‘Freudig geführt, ziehet dahin’ are the first line of the lyrics to the ‘Wedding March’ in Wagner’s Lohengrin. It means ‘Joyfully led, pass along to that place.’ Du Bois changed the original word ‘faithfully’ to ‘joyfully’.

The ‘Negro Song’ verse comes from the Black spiritual ‘Lay This Body Down’. The music excerpt is from another spiritual called ‘Wrestlin’ Jacob’.

Jubilee Hall is a building at Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee. It was built with money earned by the Fisk Jubilee Singers during their world concert tour of Black spiritual songs.

The Port Royal experiment is explained earlier on page 17.

Thomas Wentworth Higginson wrote a lot about Black spirituals and folk songs in his book Army Life in a Southern Regiment (1870). Lucy McKim Garrison was a musician who collected Black folk songs in South Carolina during the Civil War.

The Fisk Jubilee Singers were a famous group of eleven singers started at Fisk University in 1867. They toured the U.S. and Europe in 1873, raising money to support their school.

David Levering Lewis, in his biography of Du Bois, said that some song lyrics might come from a Senegambian song about being captured. The lyrics translate to: ‘I have fallen into a pit, get me out. Get me out! | I have fallen into a pit, get me out. Get me out! | One circumcised boy, one circumcised boy, one circumcised boy.’

The song ‘You may bury me in the East ... in that morning’ is from the Black spiritual ‘I’ll Hear the Trumpet Sound’, also called ‘You May Bury Me in the East’. It was the musical introduction to Chapter 13.
