Introduction xiii America? Is not my only possible practical aim the subduction of all that is Negro in me to the American? Does my black blood place upon me any more obligation to assert my nationality than German, or Irish or Italian blood would?
 
 It is such incessant self-questioning and the hesitation that arises from it, that is making the present period a time of vacillation and contradiction for the American Negro. (p. 184) In ‘Strivings of the Negro People’, especially as it is revised into the first chapter of The Souls of Black Folk, there is a wholesale rethinking of this passage. In place of the individual doubt expressed in‘The Conservation of Races’, the later piece announces a theory of what Du Bois calls ‘double consciousness’.12 There is no longer the insistence on defining the term ‘race’; in its place is a nuanced consideration of the impact of prejudice, in situations of social interaction, on black consciousness. Thus Du Bois introduces the topic in thefirst person, narrating the first occasion in his childhood when he was faced with the ‘shadow’ of discrimination. Thus he describes it as a ‘strange experience’, better described through a literary figure (‘a vast veil’) than a sociological category (race). The subsequent passage is one of the most often quoted in twentieth-century American literature: After the Egyptian and Indian, the Greek and Roman, the Teuton and Mongolian, the Negro is a sort of seventh son, born with a veil, and gifted with second-sight in this American world,––a world which yields him no true self-consciousness, but only lets him see himself through the revelation of the other world. It is a peculiar sensation, this doubleconsciousness, this sense of always looking at one’s self through the eyes of others, of measuring one’s soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity. One ever feels his two-ness,––an American, a Negro; two souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder.
 
 The history of the American Negro is the history of this strife,––this 12 A number of scholars have traced possible sources for Du Bois’s adoption of this term both in the American Transcendentalism of Emerson and in the ‘new psychology’ of Du Bois’s former teacher William James. See esp. Rampersad, Art and Imagination of W. E. B. Du Bois,68–90; Dickson D. Bruce, Jr., ‘W. E. B. Du Bois and the Idea of Double Consciousness’,American Literature64/2 (June 1992),299–309; and Shamoon Zamir, Dark Voices: W. E. B. Du Bois and American Thought, 1888–1903 (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1995),153–68.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
