xx Introduction I could see, might result in a sort of interracial free-for-all, with the devil taking the hindmost and the foremost taking anything they could lay hands on.24 The Souls of Black Folk is framed most noticeably by its epigraphs, and their striking juxtaposition of textual excerpts (mainly from the European poetic tradition) and snatches of song, what in the ‘Forethought’ is described as ‘some echo of haunting melody from the only American music which welled up from black souls in the dark past’ (pp. 3–4). Interestingly, Du Bois had originally intended to close the book with the short story ‘Of the Coming of John’, and only wrote the chapter on ‘The Sorrow Songs’ at the urging of his editor, Francis Fisher Browne. The chapter contends––debatably, perhaps––that the Negro spirituals are inherently ‘the music of an unhappy people, of the children of disappointment; they tell of death and suffering and unvoiced longing toward a truer world, of misty wanderings and hidden ways’ (p. 169). The title phrase may be derived from the description of the spirituals in Frederick Douglass’s1845Narrative, the best-known of the narratives written by former slaves, in which Douglass suggests that hearing the spirituals ‘would do more to impress some minds with the horrible character of slavery, than the reading of whole volumes of philosophy on the subject could’.25 Or as Du Bois phrases it, the sorrow songs are ‘the articulate message of the slave to the world’. The point of the unforgettable anecdote about the song sung by Du Bois’s grandfather’s grandmother (‘Do ba-na co-ba, ge-ne me, ge-ne me! | Ben d’ nu-li, nu-li, nu-li, ben d’ le’) is that the music itself carries that message of spiritual striving, beyond the meaning of the lyrics:‘The child sang it to his children and they to their children’s children, and so two hundred years it has travelled down to us and we sing it to our children, knowing as little as our fathers what its words may mean, but knowing well the meaning of its music’ (p. 170).
 
 The dual epigraphs are idealistic, in one sense, then, in their suggestion that the poetry and music can coexist in some possible 24 Du Bois, ‘The Talented Tenth Memorial Address’ (1948), in Henry Louis Gates, Jr., and Cornel West, The Future of the Race (New York: Knopf, 1996),162.
 
 25 Frederick Douglass, Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave (1845; repr. New York: Penguin, 1982),57.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
