About my head the thundering storm beat like a heartless voice, and the crazy forest pulsed with the curses of the weak; but what cared I, within my home beside my wife and baby boy? Wast thou so jealous of one little coign of happiness that thou must needs enter there,––thou, O Death?
 
 A perfect life was his, all joy and love, with tears to make it brighter,––sweet as a summer’s day beside the Housatonic. The world loved him; the women kissed his curls, the men looked gravely into his wonderful eyes, and the children hovered and fluttered about him. I can see him now, changing like the sky from sparkling laughter to darkening frowns, and then to wondering thoughtfulness as he watched the world. He knew no color-line, poor dear,––and the Veil, though it shadowed him, had not yet darkened half his sun. He loved the white matron, he loved his black nurse; and in his little world walked souls alone, uncolored and unclothed. I––yea, all men––are larger and purer by the infinite breadth of that one little life. She who in simple clearness of vision sees beyond the stars said when he hadflown, “He will be happy There; he ever loved beautiful things.” And I, far more ignorant, and blind by the web of mine own weaving, sit alone winding words and muttering, “If still he be, and he be There, and there be a There, let him be happy, O Fate!” Blithe was the morning of his burial, with bird and song and sweet-smelling flowers. The trees whispered to the grass, but the children sat with hushed faces. And yet it seemed a ghostly unreal day,––the wraith of Life. We seemed to rumble down an unknown street behind a little white bundle of posies, with the shadow of a song in our ears. The busy city dinned about us; they did not say much, those pale-faced hurrying men and women; they did not say much,––they only glanced and said, “Niggers!” We could not lay him in the ground there in Georgia, for the earth there is strangely red; so we bore him away to the northward, with his flowers and his little folded hands. In vain, in vain!––for where, O God! beneath thy broad blue sky shall my dark baby rest in peace,––where Reverence dwells, and Goodness, and a Freedom that is free?
 
 All that day and all that night there sat an awful gladness in my heart,––nay, blame me not if I see the world thus darkly through the Veil,––and my soul whispers ever to me, saying, “Not dead, not dead, but escaped; not bond, but free.” No bitter meanness now shall 144 The Souls of Black Folk sicken his baby heart till it die a living death, no taunt shall madden his happy boyhood.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
