212 Explanatory Notes 34 Jefferson Davis was a southern politician who lived from 1808 to 1889. He was the president of the Confederate States during the Civil War. Du Bois talked about him in his graduation speech at Harvard in 1890.

In his autobiography Up from Slavery (1901), Washington was upset when he saw a young black boy trying to learn French while living in very dirty and poor conditions.

37 The terrible Maroons, the Danish blacks, and Cato of Stono were all part of historic slave rebellions. Cato led a slave revolt in 1739 at the Stono River in South Carolina. The Maroons were groups of escaped slaves who made secret, independent communities in the Caribbean and South America. Slaves took control of St John Island in the Danish West Indies (now the US Virgin Islands) for six months in 1723.

Phyllis Wheatley was born in West Africa around 1753 and brought to the U.S. as a slave in 1761. Her owners helped her get an education, and she loved reading Latin and English books. In 1773, she went to London and published a book of poems called Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. Crispus Attucks, a former slave, was the first person killed in the Boston Massacre in 1770. Peter Salem and Salem Poor, both former slaves, fought as soldiers in the American Revolution. Benjamin Banneker was born free in Philadelphia in 1731. He taught himself science, math, and astronomy. He was famous for making a farmer’s almanac every year and writing a letter to President Jefferson. James C. Derham was born a slave around 1762, but his master taught him medicine. He earned his freedom by working as a doctor. Paul Cuffe, born in Massachusetts to a freed slave father and a Native American mother, became a black ship captain and merchant in New Bedford.

Paul Cuffe successfully asked the Massachusetts government to let black and Native American men vote. He also supported the idea of African Americans moving to Africa and led a small group of settlers to Sierra Leone in 1815.

Gabriel in Virginia, Denmark Vesey, and Nat Turner led three famous slave rebellions. Gabriel Prosser planned a revolt in Richmond, Virginia, around 1800. Denmark Vesey was involved in a revolt in Charleston, South Carolina, around 1822. Nat Turner led a rebellion in Southampton County, Virginia, in 1831.

The African Church means the African Methodist Episcopal Church, which started in 1787.

David Walker was born to a slave father and a free black mother in Wilmington, North Carolina, in 1785. He grew up free and later moved to Boston, where he became well-known as a writer and activist against slavery.
