Informed by the board of trustees at Atlanta University in November that he will be forced to retire in June 1944; Du Bois attempts unsuccessfully to overturn the decision.
 
 1944 Hosts the Second Phylon Conference of black educators.
 
 Named the first black member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters. Offered teaching positions at Fisk and Howard University, but accepts position as director of special research at the NAACP in New York in September.
 
 1945 Attends San Francisco conference to draft the United Nations charter. Attends and presides at the Fifth Pan-African Congress organized in Manchester, England. Begins writing a weekly column for the Chicago Defender. Wife Nina Du Bois suffers a stroke that leaves her partially paralysed on her left side; she is hospitalized for eight months. Publishes Color and Democracy: Colonies and Peace.
 
 1947 Edits An Appeal to the World, a collection of essays criticizing discrimination in the United States; it is presented to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, where its consideration is supported by the Soviet Union but ultimately blocked by the United States. Begins in March to write for the People’s Voice; his weekly column runs until March 1948.
 
 Travels through Grenada, Jamaica, Trinidad, and Cuba.
 
 Publishes The World and Africa.
 
 1948 Supports Henry Wallace, the Progressive Party candidate for president. Continues criticism of US foreign policy and racial discrimination; there is increasing tension between Du Bois and Walter White, the executive secretary of the NAACP, culminating in Du Bois’s dismissal. Joins the Council on African Affairs, where he serves as vice-chairman until 1956. Begins writing articles for the National Guardian.
 
 1949 Participates in Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace in New York in March. Attends First World Congress of the Defenders of Peace in Paris in April. Invited to the AllUnion Conference of Peace Proponents in Moscow in August.
 
 1950 Co-founds and is named chairman of the Peace Information Center, dissolved the same year due to US Department of Justice intervention. Nina Gomer Du Bois dies in Baltimore in July.
 
 Attends meeting of the World Peace Committee in Prague in August. Runs unsuccessfully for US senate as a candidate of the American Labor Party.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
