More than half of these graduates became teachers—like school presidents, principals, and heads of teacher training schools. Seventeen percent became clergymen, and another seventeen percent worked in professions, mostly as doctors. Over six percent worked as merchants, farmers, or skilled workers, and four percent worked in government jobs. Even if some of the others didn’t do well, this shows they were mostly useful and successful.

I personally know many of these graduates and have talked with over a thousand. Through others, I’ve followed the work of many more. I have taught some of them and some of their students, lived in the homes they built, and seen life through their eyes. Compared to my classmates in New England and Europe, I can say that I have never met people with a stronger desire to help others, greater dedication to their work, or more determination to succeed despite hard challenges than these college-educated Black men and women. Sure, some of them are lazy or show off too much, but not many. They don’t always have the polished manners we expect from university students, but that’s because good manners usually come from well-off families. Since their families were once slaves, it’s normal that they might seem a bit rough even with good schooling.

Even though they have big ideas and deep feelings, these men have usually been careful and steady leaders. They don’t often cause trouble or lead riots, but work quietly and faithfully in many Southern communities. As teachers, they helped build good city schools and many private teacher training schools and academies in the South. Black college graduates have worked alongside white graduates at Hampton Institute. From the start, many teachers at Tuskegee Institute came from Fisk and Atlanta colleges. Today, Tuskegee is full of college graduates—from the hardworking wife of the principal to the agriculture teacher. Almost half of the leaders and most department heads are college graduates. In other jobs, college-educated Black men are slowly changing the Black church, fighting disease as doctors, and starting to protect the rights and property of working people.
