EXPLANATORY NOTES 2 [dedication]: the book is dedicated to Du Bois’s children, Burghardt Gomer (born on 2 October 1897) and Nina Yolande (born on 21 October 1900). Du Bois describes his son as ‘the Lost’ in an allusion to Burghardt’s death from diphtheria on 24 May 1899 in Atlanta. This tragic event is the subject of Chapter XI, ‘Of the Passing of the First-Born’.
 
 7 Arthur Symons: the epigraph is drawn from The Crying of Waters (1903) by Arthur Symons. The music which follows is an excerpt of the traditional Negro spiritual, ‘Nobody Knows the Trouble I’ve Seen’. The scholar Eric Sundquist has pointed out that Du Bois, in choosing the musical selections that precede each chapter, made use of transcriptions (sometimes with slight variations) from two important nineteenthcentury collections of spirituals: J. B. T. Marsh, The Story of the Jubilee Singers with their Songs (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1872); M. F.
 
 Armstrong and Helen W. Ludlow, Hampton and its Students, arranged by Thomas P. Fenner (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1874). See Sundquist, ‘Swing Low: The Souls of Black Folk’, in To Wake the Nations: Race in the Making of American Literature (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1993),457–539.
 
 Mechanicsville: the location in Virginia of a crucial Civil War battle (also known as the battle of Beaver Dam Creek) of June 1862.
 
 8 born with a veil ... second-sight: in African American folk culture, it is believed that children born with a caul (a membrane from the placenta covering the infant’s face at birth) are gifted with prophetic and psychic abilities.
 
 10 ‘Shout, O children! ... liberty!’: the refrain of the Negro spiritual ‘Shout, O Children!’ ‘Take any shape ... tremble!’: from Shakespeare, Macbeth,iii. iv. 102–3.
 
 11 revolution of 1876: the results of the presidential elections of 1876 were contested by three states, Louisiana, Florida, and South Carolina, which supported the Democrat Samuel J. Tilden over the Republican Rutherford B. Hayes. Some Southern Democrats threatened to secede from the Union. The Hayes-Tilden compromise resolved the dispute: Hayes was named the president, and the North agreed not to interfere further in the status of the freedmen, effectively ending the period of Reconstruction.
 
 12 Toussaint: Toussaint L’Ouverture (1746–1803), the leader of the Haitian Revolution, in which the slave population overthrew French rule and defeated the army of Napoleon.
 
 15 Lowell: the epigraph is taken from The Present Crisis (1844), by James 210 Explanatory Notes Russell Lowell.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
