Negro colleges and the extra courses at other schools are the only places where teachers can get better and more careful training. But these schools don’t have enough money to do their work well.

It is getting harder and harder to find money to train teachers using the best modern ways. Still, all over the South, from state leaders, county officials, city boards, and school principals, people keep saying, “We need TEACHERS!” and teachers need proper training. Atticus G. Haygood, a fair-minded white Southerner, once said: “Black teachers have many problems, so it’s very important to train better ones. Their good qualities and successes give hope that training them well will work, and it is worth spending money and effort to help black students prepare to teach children of their own people.” 

This is clear when we look at white teachers in the South. Twenty years ago, many white teachers were not as good as black teachers. But white teachers got help through scholarships and good pay, which encouraged them to study hard and get good training. Black teachers, on the other hand, were paid very little and were told that any training was enough for them. If people need carpenters, it’s good to train men to be carpenters. But if you train men to be teachers and then pay them very little unless they become carpenters, that doesn’t make sense and is unfair.

The United States Commissioner of Education said in his 1900 report: “To compare white and black students in high schools and colleges, I added the numbers in both because I wasn’t sure about the exact level of college work. The high school work is reported clearly, so there’s no doubt about it.” He shared these numbers of students per million people enrolled in secondary and higher education: For the whole country in 1880, 4,362 white students and 1,289 black students; in 1900, 10,743 white students and 2,061 black students. He said that while the number of black students in high schools and colleges grew faster than their population, it still didn’t keep up with the average for the whole country, dropping from 30 percent.
