The thin father who worked all day and night wouldn’t really be happy if he ever got out of debt because he was so used to struggling. One day he would have to stop working because his big body was getting weak. The mother still wore shoes, but she wasn’t as strong as she used to be. The children had grown up. Rob, who looked just like his father, was loud and laughed a lot. Birdie, the little girl who used to be in my class, had grown up into a tall and pretty young lady. “Edgar is gone,” the mother said, her head a little down. “He went to work in Nashville because he and his father didn’t get along.” Little Doc, the boy born after I left school, took me for a horse ride down the creek toward Farmer Dowell’s place the next morning.

The road and the stream were fighting for space, and the stream was winning. We splashed through the water, and the happy boy riding behind me talked and laughed. He showed me where Simon Thompson had bought some land and a house, but his daughter Lana, a chubby, slow-moving girl, wasn’t there. She had married a man who owned a farm twenty miles away. We followed the stream until we reached a gate I didn’t know, but the boy said it was “Uncle Bird’s.” The farm was full of growing crops. The little valley was very quiet when I arrived because death and marriage had taken the young people away, leaving only the old and the children. That night, after finishing chores, we sat and talked. Uncle Bird had more gray hair, and his eyesight wasn’t as good, but he was still cheerful. We talked about the land he had bought—one hundred and twenty-five acres—the new guest room he added, and about Martha getting married.

Then we talked about death: Fanny and Fred had died; there was sadness about the other daughter, but when things got better, she was going to Nashville to go to school. Finally, as night came, Uncle Bird told me how, on a night like that, Thenie had come back home to get away from her husband’s abuse. The next morning, she died in the house that her little brother, who had worked hard and saved money, had bought for their widowed mother.

My trip was over, and behind me were hills and valleys, and the things of life and death. How can anyone measure what progress really means where Josie, a dark-skinned girl, lies? How much sadness can balance out a basket of wheat? Life is really hard for poor people, but it is also very real and full of feeling. Is all this life, love, fighting, and failure the end of the day or the beginning of a new one?

Thinking sadly about this, I rode to Nashville in the Jim Crow car.
