Field Order Number Fifteen was a rule made by General William Tecumseh Sherman in the summer of 1865. It gave freed slaves the right to farm land from Charlestown, South Carolina, to Jacksonville, Florida. But later that year, President Andrew Johnson canceled the order and told that the land should go back to the white owners.

William Pitt Fessenden was the secretary of the treasury in 1864–5. Oliver Otis Howard worked as the head of the Freedmen’s Bureau in 1865.

The “crusade of the New England school-ma’am” means the teachers and missionaries, mostly middle-class white women, who came to work in the South with help from the Freedmen’s Bureau.

There were eight Christian crusades in Europe to the Holy Land, the last one in 1248 led by Louis IX of France. Du Bois called the work of these teachers a “Ninth Crusade” because it was very ambitious and had a strong religious purpose.

The Latin phrase “toto cælo” means totally or absolutely, and it literally means “by all of heaven.”

Edmund Ware became head of Atlanta’s school system after the Civil War and later helped start Atlanta University, becoming its first president. Samuel Chapman Armstrong was a Union officer and Freedmen’s Bureau agent who helped found Hampton Institute in 1868. Erastus Milo Cravath was a preacher who helped start Atlanta University and Fisk University and became president of Fisk in 1875.

Fisk, Atlanta, Howard, and Hampton are all black colleges started after the Civil War. Hampton Institute was founded in Virginia in 1868, Fisk University in Tennessee in 1866, Atlanta University in 1865, and Howard University in Washington, DC, in 1867.

The King’s Highway is a name from the Bible for the main road across Jordan that the Israelites were not allowed to use when they were wandering.

Byron is a poet, and the quote comes from his poem called Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage from 1812. The music that follows comes from a Negro spiritual song called “A Great Camp Meeting in the Promised Land.”

Booker T. Washington was a former slave who started Tuskegee Institute in 1881. He became a very important educator and speaker. He was the biggest rival of Du Bois as a black leader in the early 1900s.

The “Atlanta Compromise” was a speech Washington gave at the Cotton States Exposition on September 18, 1895.
