216 Explanatory Notes 69 Spelman Seminary: founded in 1881 as the Atlanta Baptist Female Seminary and renamed in 1884, Spelman was the first college in the United States for African American women.
 
 70 Atlanta, Fisk, and Howard ... Shaw: a list of some of the most prominent Negro institutions of higher education founded after the Civil War: Atlanta University, established in Atlanta 1865; Fisk University was founded in Nashville, Tennessee, in 1866; Howard University was founded in Washington, DC, in 1867; Wilberforce University was founded in Ohio by the AME Church in 1856; Lincoln University was founded in Oxford, Pennsylvania, in 1854 under the name the Ashmun Institute (it became Lincoln University in 1866); Biddle Memorial Institute was established in Charlotte, North Carolina, by the Presbyterian Church in 1867 (it would be renamed Johnson C. Smith University in 1921); Shaw University was founded in Raleigh, North Carolina, in 1865.
 
 former teacher and friend: Edmund Asa Ware (1837–85), a founder and the first president of Atlanta University.
 
 71 the Conference at Atlanta University: while a faculty member in the sociology department at Atlanta University, Du Bois organized a series of conferences and publications concerning African American life. ‘The College-Bred Negro’ was the fifth conference, held in 1900.
 
 72 gaucherie: (French) haplessness, lack of grace.
 
 the energetic wife of the principal: Margaret Murray Washington, the African American activist and intellectual who had been a classmate of Du Bois’s at Fisk; she was Booker T. Washington’s third wife.
 
 74 this Talented Tenth: Du Bois’s term for the educated African American professional elite, which he argued had a responsibility to lead and better the condition of the black masses. See the essay ‘The Talented Tenth’ included as Appendix II to this volume.
 
 76 Pisgah, between Philistine and Amalekite: Pisgah is the name of the mountain east of Jordan from which Moses first saw the Promised Land.
 
 The Philistines and the Amalekites were enemies of the Israelites during their travels as they searched for the Promised Land.
 
 77 The Song of Solomon: the first epigraph is taken from Song of Solomon 1: 5–6. The musical excerpt which follows comes from the Negro Spiritual ‘Bright Sparkles in the Churchyard’.
 
 Hernando de Soto: a reference to the Spanish explorer (1496?–1542) and discoverer of the Mississippi river.
 
 Sam Hose: a farm labourer who was accused of killing his employer in Palmetto, Georgia, a town outside Atlanta. When captured by a mob, he was also accused of raping the employer’s wife; Hose confessed to the killing, after an argument over a debt, but denied having committed rape. He was publicly tortured and killed in April 1899 in a lynching observed by more than 2,000 people. Du Bois, then a professor at Atlanta University, was deeply affected by the episode. While on his way to Explanatory Notes 217 deliver a letter protesting the lynching to the editorial office of the AtlantaConstitution, Du Bois was horrified to learn that Hose had been barbecued and dismembered; his burnt knuckles were on display in a store window downtown.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
