Not only is Georgia thus the geographical focus of our Negro population, but in many other respects, both now and yesterday, the Negro problems have seemed to be centered in this State. No other State in the Union can count a million Negroes among its citizens, ––a population as large as the slave population of the whole Union in1800; no other State fought so long and strenuously to gather this host of Africans. Oglethorpe* thought slavery against law and gospel; but the circumstances which gave Georgia its first inhabitants were not calculated to furnish citizens over-nice in their ideas about rum and slaves. Despite the prohibitions of the trustees, these Georgians, like some of their descendants, proceeded to take the law into their own hands; and so pliant were the judges, and so flagrant the smuggling, and so earnest were the prayers of Whitefield,* that by the middle of the eighteenth century all restrictions were swept away, and the slave-trade went merrily on for fifty years and more.
 
 Down in Darien, where the Delegal riots* took place some summers ago, there used to come a strong protest against slavery from the Scotch Highlanders; and the Moravians of Ebenezea* did not like the system. But not till the Haytian Terror of Toussaint* was the trade in men even checked; while the national statute of 1808* did not suffice to stop it. How the Africans poured in!––fifty thousand between 1790 and 1810, and then, from Virginia and from smugglers, two thousand a year for many years more. So the thirty thousand Negroes of Georgia in 1790 were doubled in a decade,––were over a hundred thousand in 1810, had reached two hundred thousand in 1820, and half a million at the time of the war. Thus like a snake the black population writhed upward.
 
 But we must hasten on our journey. This that we pass as we leave Atlanta is the ancient land of the Cherokees,––that brave Indian nation which strove so long for its fatherland, until Fate and the United States Government drove them beyond the Mississippi. If you wish to ride with me you must come into the “Jim Crow Car.” There will be no objection,––already four other white men, and a little white girl with her nurse, are in there. Usually the races are mixed in there; but the white coach is all white. Of course this car is not so good as the other, but it is fairly clean and comfortable.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
