I thought about her with wonder... under her heart: Nina Gomer Du Bois was Du Bois’s first wife. They got married on May 12, 1896, and on October 2, 1897, Nina had their first child, Burghardt Gomer Du Bois, in Great Barrington, Massachusetts. Sadly, on May 24, 1899, Burghardt died from diphtheria in Atlanta. Du Bois tried but couldn’t find a black doctor to help Burghardt because white doctors and hospitals wouldn’t treat black patients back then.

“Thou shalt forego!” is Du Bois’s way of translating Goethe’s phrase ‘sollst entbehren’; see the note on page 59.

The quote at the beginning comes from ‘The Passing of Arthur’ in Idylls of the King (1869) by Alfred Lord Tennyson. The music that follows is from the Negro spiritual ‘Swing Low, Sweet Chariot’.

Alexander Crummell was an important African American religious leader, writer, missionary, and abolitionist (1819–98). He became a deacon at St Paul’s Episcopal Cathedral in Philadelphia in 1842 and a priest in 1844. In 1848, he went to England to study at Cambridge University. Later, he traveled to Africa and lived in Liberia as a missionary between 1853 and 1872 before returning to the United States.

The Missouri Compromise was a law passed in 1820 that kept the balance between free and slave states by allowing Missouri to be a slave state and Maine to be a free state. Manila and El Caney are places in the Philippines and Cuba where important American victories happened during the Spanish-American War.

Beriah Green started the Oneida Institute in Whitesboro, New York, where Crummell graduated in 1836.

Once before, Crummell and two other African Americans (Henry Highland Garnet and Thomas S. Sidney) joined the Noyes Academy in Canaan, New Hampshire, which was started by people who wanted to end slavery. But angry white men didn’t like this and dragged the school’s main building into a swamp using oxen, so Crummell and his friends had to leave.

Benjamin T. Onderdonk, the Episcopal bishop of New York, wouldn’t let Crummell join the Episcopal General Theological Seminary in 1838 because he didn’t accept black people.

John Jay was a politician and abolitionist (1817–94), and the grandson of John Jay, the first chief justice of the US Supreme Court.

The phrase “why cast your pearls before swine?” comes from the Bible, Matthew 7:6.

Bishop Onderdonk refers to Henry U. Onderdonk from Philadelphia, who was the brother of Bishop Benjamin T. Onderdonk of New York.

Fox’s ‘Lives of the Martyrs’ and ‘Whole Duty of Man’ are references to the Book of Martyrs (1563) written by English clergyman John Foxe (1516–78).
