Of Alexander Crummell 147 The nineteenth was the first century of human sympathy,––the age when half wonderingly we began to descry in others that transfigured spark of divinity which we call Myself; when clodhoppers and peasants, and tramps and thieves, and millionaires and––sometimes––Negroes, became throbbing souls whose warm pulsing life touched us so nearly that we half gasped with surprise, crying, “Thou too! Hast Thou seen Sorrow and the dull waters of Hopelessness?
 
 Hast Thou known Life?” And then all helplessly we peered into those Other-worlds, and wailed, “O World of Worlds, how shall man make you one?” So in that little Oneida school there came to those schoolboys a revelation of thought and longing beneath one black skin, of which they had not dreamed before. And to the lonely boy came a new dawn of sympathy and inspiration. The shadowy, formless thing–– the temptation of Hate, that hovered between him and the world–– grew fainter and less sinister. It did not wholly fade away, but diffused itself and lingered thick at the edges. Through it the child now first saw the blue and gold of life,––the sun-swept road that ran ’twixt heaven and earth until in one far-off wan wavering line they met and kissed. A vision of life came to the growing boy,––mystic, wonderful. He raised his head, stretched himself, breathed deep of the fresh new air. Yonder, behind the forests, he heard strange sounds; then glinting through the trees he saw, far, far away, the bronzed hosts of a nation calling,––calling faintly, calling loudly. He heard the hateful clank of their chains, he felt them cringe and grovel, and there rose within him a protest and a prophecy. And he girded himself to walk down the world.
 
 A voice and vision called him to be a priest,––a seer to lead the uncalled out of the house of bondage. He saw the headless host turn toward him like the whirling of mad waters,––he stretched forth his hands eagerly, and then, even as he stretched them, suddenly there swept across the vision the temptation of Despair.
 
 They were not wicked men,––the problem of life is not the problem of the wicked,––they were calm, good men, Bishops of the Apostolic Church of God, and strove toward righteousness. They said slowly, “It is all very natural––it is even commendable; but the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church cannot admit a Negro.”* And when that thin, half-grotesque figure still haunted their doors, they put their hands kindly, half sorrowfully, on 148 The Souls of Black Folk his shoulders, and said, “Now,––of course, we––we know how you feel about it; but you see it is impossible,––that is––well––it is premature.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
