The bill was passed, but it was too late for the House to take action. The debates covered the whole government policy and the big issue of slavery, but didn’t focus much on the details of this bill. Then, after the national election, the government, with stronger support from the people, took the matter more seriously. Both parts of Congress agreed on a carefully made bill that included the main ideas of Sumner’s bill but made the new group a department separate from the War and Treasury departments.

The bill was careful and gave the new department the job of “looking after all freedmen.” Its goal was to make rules for them, protect them, rent out land to them, set their wages, and act as their “next friend” in courts. There were many limits to the powers given, and the department was made permanent. But the Senate rejected the bill, so a new committee was formed.

This new committee suggested another bill on February 28, which quickly passed just before the session ended. It became the law of 1865, creating a “Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands” inside the War Department. This last version was rushed and unclear. The Bureau was set up “to last during the current War of Rebellion and for one year after,” and was given “control of all abandoned lands and all issues related to refugees and freedmen,” following rules made by the Bureau’s leader and approved by the President. The President and Senate would pick a Commissioner to lead the Bureau, with up to ten clerks working in the office. The President could also choose assistant commissioners in the states that had seceded, and military officers could be assigned to these jobs with regular pay. The Secretary of War could give food, clothes, and fuel to those in need, and all abandoned property was given to the Bureau to lease or sell in 40-acre pieces to former slaves.

With this, the U.S. government officially took responsibility for freed Black people as their guardian. It was a huge and important job.
