xviii Introduction Du Bois upholds another model for the scholar, here, who is described both as a ‘student’ and, more ambitiously, as a ‘social seer’, capable of extrapolating the lessons of ‘intimate contact’ into the instrumental language of public policy.
 
 Upon its publication in 1903,The Souls of Black Folk drew attention above all for its firm and carefully reasoned criticism of Booker T. Washington, the former slave who had risen to unparalleled prominence and influence as the founder and director of Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. Chapter III, ‘Of Mr. Booker T. Washington and Others’, is a greatly expanded version of a short review of Washington’s autobiography Up from Slavery published by Du Bois in the Dial in July 1901 under the title, ‘The Evolution of Negro Leadership’. This chapter, and to some degree the book as a whole, can be read as the first public statement of a ‘class of Negroes who cannot agree with Mr. Washington’ (p. 40) but who had previously been silent (in part out of fear at the unchallenged power of Washington’s ‘Tuskegee Machine’, easily the dominant force in black political life at the turn of the century). Du Bois called this class the ‘Talented Tenth’: the portion of the intellectual elite committed to the uplift of the black population through the pursuit of civil rights, the support for higher education, and the attainment of political power. He only employs the phrase once in The Souls of Black Folk, in ‘Of the Training of Black Men’ (p. 74), but the book is very much the ‘manifesto of the Talented Tenth’,20 and thus an appropriate companion to the essay that Du Bois published the same year extolling the ‘aristocracy of the race’.21 It was recognized as such in its time; as Jessie Fauset, the schoolteacher and future novelist, wrote in a grateful letter to Du Bois: ‘we have needed someone to voice the intricacies of the blind maze of thought and action along which the modern, educated colored man or woman struggles’.22 As thoroughly convincing is the critique of Booker T. Washington, and Du Bois’s concomitant argument for the importance of higher education, there is an element of unabashed vanguardism in 20 Lewis, Du Bois: Biography,288.
 
 21 W. E. B. Du Bois, ‘The Talented Tenth’, in The Negro Problem: A Series of Articles by Representative American Negroes of Today (New York: James Pott & Co., 1903), 33–75. This essay is included as Appendix II to this edition.
 
 22 Jessie Fauset, letter to Du Bois, 26 Dec. 1903, in The Correspondence of W. E. B. Du Bois, i. Selections, 1877–1934, ed. Herbert Aptheker (Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1973),66.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
