A CHRONOLOGY OF W. E. B. DU BOIS 1868 Born William Edward Burghardt Du Bois in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, on 23 February, the only child of Alfred Du Bois and Mary Silvina Burghardt. Father moves to New Milford, and Du Bois is raised by his mother.
 
 1884 Graduates from high school in Great Barrington and writes occasional articles for the Springfield Republican and for the New York Globe.
 
 1885 Mother dies on 23 March. A group of civic and Congregational church leaders in Massachusetts and Connecticut arrange a fund to support Du Bois’s studies at Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee. Edits the Fisk Herald.
 
 1886–7 Teaches school during the summer in a poor black rural community near Alexandria, Tennessee.
 
 1888 Receives BA degree from Fisk in June. Gives the graduation address on Bismarck. Awarded a Price-Greenleaf grant of $250, he continues his studies at Harvard College, where he is admitted as a junior. His teachers include Albert Bushnell Hart in history and William James and George Santayana in philosophy.
 
 1890 Earns a BA cum laude in philosophy at Harvard. Gives the commencement address on Jefferson Davis. Continues his studies at Harvard as a graduate student in social science.
 
 1891 Receives an MA degree in history from Harvard, writing a thesis on the suppression of the African slave trade.
 
 1892 Wins fellowship from the Slater Fund to study at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin, Germany. Works with Gustav Schmoller and Heinrich von Treitschke.
 
 1894 Denied Ph.D. degree at Friedrich Wilhelm University because of residency requirements. Takes a chair in classics at Wilberforce University, a black college in Xenia, Ohio.
 
 1895 Receives Ph.D. in history from Harvard, the first black student to do so.
 
 1896 Marries Nina Gomer, a student at Wilberforce. Publishes his doctoral thesis, The Suppression of the African Slave-Trade to the United States of America, 1638–1870, as the first volume in the Harvard Historical Monograph Series. Hired by the University Chronology xxxi of Pennsylvania to pursue a sociological study of black life in Philadelphia.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
