The music that comes next is part of a Negro spiritual called "My Lord, What a Mourning."

The phrase "color-line" was first used by Du Bois in a speech he gave at the Pan-African Conference in London in 1900.

The War Amendments are three important changes to the U.S. Constitution related to the Civil War. The Thirteenth Amendment in 1865 ended slavery. The Fourteenth Amendment in 1866 gave former slaves equal protection under the law. The Fifteenth Amendment in 1870 allowed black men to vote.

The Freedmen’s Bureau was created by the U.S. government in 1865 to help freed slaves in the South. It built hospitals and schools for black people, set up courts, and helped with work agreements between former slaves and Southern employers. The Bureau closed in 1872.

Ben Butler was a politician and Union general from Massachusetts during the Civil War.

Fremont was a Civil War general and ran for president in 1856.

Halleck was also a Civil War general.

Secretary Cameron was Simon L. Cameron, who worked as Lincoln’s secretary of war.

Pierce of Boston was Edward Lillie Pierce, an abolitionist who worked in the South for the Freedmen’s Bureau.

Secretary Chase was Salmon P. Chase, the treasury secretary during the Civil War. He put Pierce in charge of a project in 1861 at Port Royal, South Carolina, where freed slaves were hired to work in the cotton industry. The project worked well, but after the war, the land was returned to its white owners.

The Amistad was a slave ship taken over by African captives near Cuba in 1839. The Africans wanted to go back to Africa, but the surviving crew took the ship to Connecticut instead. They were imprisoned for two years, but with help from lawyers and John Quincy Adams, they were freed and returned home.

General Dix was John A. Dix, a Civil War general who managed freedmen’s affairs.

General Banks was Nathaniel P. Banks, another Civil War general.

Colonel Eaton was John Eaton, Jr., a Union officer.

General Saxton was Rufus Saxton, Jr., a Civil War general.
