Introduction xix the emphasis on the role of the ‘Talented Tenth’. To some degree, the focus is logical, given the persistence of segregation and the absence of a black professional class, especially in the South: without black teachers, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and editors, black civil society would remain powerless in the face of a hostile white power structure. Nevertheless, Du Bois’s calls for education are suffused with an elitism that he himself came to recognize as a dangerous predilection in his own temperament. ‘Was there ever a nation on God’s fair earth civilized from the bottom upward?’ Du Bois asks rhetorically in the essay ‘The Talented Tenth’.‘Never; it is, ever was and ever will be from the top downward that culture filters. The Talented Tenth rises and pulls all that are worth the saving up to their vantage ground’ (p. 193). In another article two years earlier, he proclaimed in even stronger terms that ‘social distinctions should be observed. A rising race must be aristocratic; the good cannot consort with the bad––nor even the best with the less good’.23 The phrasing is not so pronounced in The Souls of Black Folk, but there is a stream of oddly moralizing observations regarding black ‘criminality’ and ‘sexual impurity’, and isolated passages such as the following comment on the founders of the first Negro colleges in the South, from the fifth chapter: ‘They forgot, too, just as their successors are forgetting, the rule of inequality:––that of the million black youth, some were fitted to know and some to dig’ (p. 59). In a speech given in 1948, Du Bois himself offered what may be the most eloquent critique of his investment in the notion of a ‘Talented Tenth’: When I came out of college into the world of work, I realized that it was quite possible that my plan of training a talented tenth might put in control and power, a group of selfish, self-indulgent, well-to-do men, whose basic interest in solving the Negro Problem was personal; personal freedom and unhampered enjoyment and use of the world, without any real care, or certainly no arousing care, as to what became of the mass of American Negroes, or of the mass of any people. My Talented Tenth, 23 Du Bois, The Black North in 1901: A Social Study. A Series of Articles Originally Appearing in the New York Times, November–December, 1901 (New York: Arno Press, 1969), quoted in Shamoon Zamir, Dark Voices,150. On the elitist strain in Du Bois’s work, see esp. Adolph L. Reed, Jr., W.E.B. Du Bois and American Political Thought: Fabianism and the Color Line (New York: Oxford University Press, 1997), 53–4, and Kenneth W. Warren, ‘An Inevitable Drift? Oligarchy, Du Bois, and the Politics of Race between the Wars’,Boundary 2,27/3 (2000),153–69.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
