In 1951, he was charged in February along with four others from the Peace Information Center under a law about foreign agents.

He married Shirley Graham, who was a writer and activist. He went on a national lecture tour to pay for his legal fees. In November, he was found not guilty.

In 1952, the US government didn’t give him a passport because he refused to say he wasn’t a member of the Communist Party. He published a book called In Battle for Peace.

In 1953, he helped support Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were accused of being Soviet spies. He wrote a tribute to Stalin in a newspaper. He also won an International Peace Prize from the World Peace Council.

In 1954, he was surprised by the Supreme Court’s decision to end segregation in public schools and said, “I have seen the impossible happen.” In 1955, he traveled to Grenada and Barbados but was not allowed a passport to go to a youth festival in Poland.

In 1956, he sent a message supporting Martin Luther King Jr. during the Montgomery bus boycott. He was denied a passport to lecture in China and also to attend a conference for Black writers and artists in Paris.

In 1957, he published a historical novel called The Ordeal of Mansart, the first book in The Black Flame trilogy. He was refused a passport to go to Ghana’s independence celebrations.

In 1958, he had his 90th birthday party at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York, with two thousand people attending. He started writing a new autobiography, which was published after he died. He finally got his passport after the Supreme Court said the political statement was not required. In August, he went on a world tour to Europe and the Soviet Union. He also got an honorary degree in economics from a university in East Berlin.

In 1959, he spent two months in China. At the end of summer, he came back to the US, traveling through the Soviet Union, Sweden, and England. In September, he won the International Lenin Prize. He published Mansart Builds a School, the second book in The Black Flame trilogy.

In 1960, he traveled to Ghana and Nigeria.
