But they faced, like everyone since then, the big problem in the South—the separation of black and white people. Back then, almost all connections between black and white people broke apart suddenly, in jobs, government, and family life. Since then, new ways of dealing with each other in work and politics have developed. These ways are tricky to understand but clever, yet there is still a huge divide between the races that is dangerous to cross.

So, even now, the South has two separate worlds. They are not only divided in social life but also in churches, schools, trains, hotels, theaters, neighborhoods, books, newspapers, hospitals, jails, and cemeteries. There is some contact for business and group work, but the divide is so strong that it stops any real, caring teamwork and leadership between the races. This kind of teamwork is what black people and other struggling groups need to make real progress.

The missionaries in 1868 saw this clearly. They knew that good industrial and trade schools couldn’t work before there was a common school system. But also, real common schools couldn’t be started without teachers to teach in them.

Southern white people wouldn’t teach black students; Northern white people were too few to help much. So, if black people were to learn, they had to teach themselves. The best help was to set up schools to train black teachers. This idea slowly became clear to everyone studying the problem. Without planning or talking to each other, many schools were started in different places to train black teachers.

Critics made fun of this idea because it had flaws, but the truth is powerful: in one generation, these schools created thirty thousand black teachers in the South. They ended most illiteracy among black people and made schools like Tuskegee possible.

These training schools naturally led to more growth. At first, they were like elementary and middle schools, then some became high schools. By 1900, about thirty-four of them even offered some college-level classes.
