At 2:45 in the morning, I wake up needing to pee because of a strange dream. In the dream, there’s a big group of students at a meeting. A Count (maybe named Thun or Taaffe) is giving a speech. When asked about the Germans, he says with a rude gesture that their favorite flower is coltsfoot. Then he puts a torn, crumpled leaf in his buttonhole.

I jump up, surprised by how I’m acting. Then things get blurry: it feels like we’re in a lobby, and the exits are crowded, so I need to get out. I go through some fancy rooms with brownish-purple furniture, which look like government offices. Finally, I reach a hallway where a fat, old housekeeper is sitting. I try not to talk to her, but she thinks I have the right to pass and asks if she should carry a lamp for me. I tell her to stay on the stairs, feeling clever for sneaking by.

Now I’m downstairs and find a narrow, steep path to follow. It seems like I need to leave the city, just like I had to get out of the building. I’m riding in a small cab pulled by one horse and tell the driver to take me to a train station. When he complains like he’s tired, I say, “I can’t drive on the train tracks.” It feels like I already took this ride, which usually would be by train.

The stations are crowded, and I wonder whether to go to Krems or Znaim, but I remember the Court will be there. I decide to go to Graz or somewhere like that. Now I’m sitting in a train car that looks like a tram. In my buttonhole, I have a strange long braided thing decorated with stiff violet-brown flowers that impress people. Then the scene ends.

I’m back in front of the train station with an old man. I think up a plan to stay hidden, but I see it’s already happening. He pretends to be blind in one eye, and I hold a male urinal for him because he’s blind. If the conductor sees us like this, he won’t notice us. I also clearly picture how the old man is positioned while peeing. Then I wake up needing to pee.

The whole dream feels like a fantasy that takes me back to the year 1848, the year of revolution. This memory came back because of the 1898 anniversary and a trip I took to Wachau, where I visited Emmersdorf, a place tied to a student leader named Fischof. Some parts of the dream might relate to this.

The ideas lead me to England, to my brother’s house. He used to joke about his wife with the title of Tennyson’s poem, Fifty Years Ago, but the kids would correct him to Fifteen Years Ago. This fantasy about Count Thun is like the front of an Italian church—pretty but not really connected to what’s inside. Unlike a church front, this dream is full of holes and confusing parts where the inside leaks out.

The first part of the dream is made of different scenes I can separate. The Count’s rude attitude copied a moment from when I was fifteen at school. We had a plan against a dumb and disliked teacher. Our leader acted like Henry VIII. I had to carry out the plan, and a talk about the Danube River caused an open rebellion.

One friend was our only noble student, called “the giraffe” because he was tall. When the German teacher yelled at him, he stood just like the Count did in the dream. The part about the favorite flower and the buttonhole reminds me of orchids I gave to a friend and a rose of Jericho. It also makes me think of a scene in Shakespeare about the civil wars between the Red and White Roses.

Mentioning Henry VIII made me remember roses and carnations. Two little rhymes, one German and one Spanish, come to mind: “Roses, tulips, carnations, all flowers wither,” and “Isabelita, don’t cry, flowers fade.” In Vienna, white carnations represent Anti-Semites and red ones stand for Social Democrats. I also remember an anti-Semitic challenge during a train trip in Saxony.

The third scene in the dream goes back to my early student days. There was a debate in a German student club about philosophy and science. Being young and full of materialistic ideas, I took a strong side. Then a smart older student, who later became a leader and had an animal name, stood up and gave us a serious talking-to. He said he used to herd pigs but changed his ways.

I jumped up, got rude, and said since I knew he herded pigs, I wasn’t surprised by what he said. (In the dream, I’m surprised by my own German nationalist feelings.) There was a big fuss, and almost everyone wanted me to take back my words, but I didn’t. The other student was smart enough not to challenge me and just let it go.

Other parts of this dream come from older memories. Why does the Count insult coltsfoot? I think about my associations. Coltsfoot (in German, Huflattich) sounds like words for lettuce, a dog that’s jealous, and lots of animal insults like monkey, pig, dog, and maybe donkey. I might even be making fun of a professor this way.

Also, I translate coltsfoot as “piss-in-bed,” inspired by Zola’s book Germinal where kids have to bring dandelion salad. The word for dog sounds like the French verb for a basic bodily function, like peeing or pooping.

That’s how the dream pieces together for me.
