I remember that when he was dying, he looked a lot like Garibaldi, and I’m happy that this promise actually came true.

This idea might sound strange. It was thought of when Hungary was in chaos because the government wasn’t working well, and they were going through a tough time that Koloman Szell later fixed. The small details in dreams, like little pictures, can actually help explain this. Usually, our dreams show things that seem life-sized, but my dream showed a picture like a wood-cut from an old history book about Austria, showing Maria Theresa at an important meeting. In my dream, my dad was like Maria Theresa, standing on one or two chairs, like a judge leading a group. The people around him are like the crowd in the picture. Those of us at my dad’s deathbed noticed he really did look like Garibaldi. After he died, his cheeks even looked redder, like he had a fever. We thought, “Behind him, glowing softly, is the thing that controls all of us—death.” This made us ready to face the fact that we all share the same fate.

My dad had a terrible problem near the end—his intestines stopped working completely. People sometimes have rude thoughts about this. A friend of mine once told me, joking, about someone’s dad who died in the street and had an accident after death. The daughter was upset because it made her remember her dad in a bad way. This shows what the dream really wants: to stand strong and respected in front of your children after you die. Who wouldn’t want that? The weirdness of the dream comes from a common phrase being shown exactly as it sounds, even if it seems silly. So, the dream’s oddness was actually planned.

It’s common to be surprised when we dream about dead people acting like they’re alive and talking with us. Some people have strange ideas about why this happens, but the answer is simple. We often think, “If my dad were still alive, what would he say now?” Dreams show this by making the dead person appear alive in a certain situation. For example, a young man who inherited a lot from his grandfather dreamed the grandpa was alive and scolded him for spending too much money. We think this is strange because we know the grandpa is dead, but really, it’s comforting to think he doesn’t have to know or care about what’s happening.

Another kind of strange dream about dead family doesn’t show mockery but shows a deep rejection or a hidden thought we don’t want to admit. Dreams don’t separate what we want from what’s real. For example, a man who cared for his sick dad and felt very sad when he died dreamed his dad was still alive and talking, but didn’t know he was dead. This makes sense if we remember that the son sometimes wished his dad would die soon to stop his suffering. After his dad died, the son felt guilty, as if that wish somehow made his dad die faster.

Because of early feelings against his dad, the son could express this guilt in a dream. The dream seemed strange because it showed two opposite feelings—love and anger. Dreams about dead people we cared for are usually hard to understand because we feel mixed emotions. Often, the dead person seems alive at first, then dead, then alive again in the dream, which can be confusing. I think this changing shows the dreamer’s wish to act like it doesn’t matter if the person is alive or dead. This isn’t true, but it helps the dreamer deny their strong and mixed feelings. In other dreams with dead people, if the dreamer doesn’t realize the person is dead, it means they are imagining themselves dead too. When the dreamer suddenly thinks, “But he’s been dead for a long time!” it’s a way of saying no to this idea. Still, I believe we don’t fully understand all dreams like this yet.

Now, I will share an example where the dream made something silly on purpose, even though there was no reason for it. This dream happened after I met Count Thun before going on a holiday.
