[40] See also "Analysis of a Phobia in a Five-year-old Boy," Collected Papers, III; and "On the Sexual Theories of Children," Ibid., II.

[41] Hans, the boy studied in the analysis mentioned above, cried out when he was three and a half years old and sick, soon after his baby sister was born: "But I don't want to have a little sister." Later, when he had a nervous problem, he openly said he wished his mother would drop the baby in the bath so it would die. Even so, Hans was a kind and loving child who soon liked his sister and took care of her.

[42] These experiences of death that children go through might be forgotten by their families, but psycho-analysis shows they are very important for problems that come up later.

[43] Since then, many studies have shown that children often feel angry or upset toward their brothers, sisters, or one parent. One writer, Spitteler, described his own feelings as a child: "There was now a second Adolf, a little creature they said was my brother, but I didn’t understand why he existed or why he was like me. I was fine by myself; why would I want a brother? He was not only useless but also annoying. When I bothered my grandmother, he wanted to bother her too; when I was in the baby carriage, he sat across from me and took up half the space, so we kept kicking each other."

[44] The three-and-a-half-year-old Hans said the same about his little sister. He thought she couldn’t talk because she had no teeth.

[45] I was surprised to hear that a very smart ten-year-old boy, after his father suddenly died, said: "I understand that father is dead, but I don’t see why he doesn’t come home for dinner." More about this topic can be found in the section "Kinderseele," edited by Frau Dr. von Hug-Hellmuth, in Imago Volumes 1 to 5, 1912-18.

[46] A psychoanalyst father noticed the exact moment his very smart four-year-old daughter understood the difference between being away and being dead. The child was misbehaving at the table, and one waitress looked annoyed. The girl said to her father, "Josephine ought to be dead." The father asked gently, "But why dead?" The girl replied, "Wouldn’t it be enough if she went away?" When her father said yes, she said, "No, then she would come back again." To a child’s selfish feelings, every problem feels like a serious crime, and like strict punishments in old laws, the child’s feelings demand one punishment for all such crimes.

[47] Sometimes, this feeling is hidden by the fear of punishment, which can make a child worry they might lose a parent they love.

[48] In some myths, emasculation (taking away a male’s power) was done only by Kronos to his father Uranos.

For more on the mythological meaning of this, see Otto Rank’s works, like "The Myth of the Birth of the Hero" (1909), and "The Incest Motif in Literature and Legend" (1912), chapter 9, part 2.

[49] This is about the father’s authority.

[50] None of the findings of psychoanalysis has caused so much angry disagreement, strong opposition, and creative criticism as the idea that children have unconscious incestuous feelings. Some have tried to say incest only means something symbolic, ignoring real experience. Ferenczi offered a clever new view of the Oedipus myth, based on a letter by Schopenhauer, in Imago, 1912. The Oedipus complex, first mentioned in "The Interpretation of Dreams," has become very important for understanding human history and how religion and morality developed. See also "Totem and Taboo."

[51] See the earlier part of this chapter for dreams about showing off.

[52] Dr. Ernest Jones later developed ideas about understanding Hamlet through psychoanalysis and defended this view against others in "The Problem of Hamlet and the Oedipus Complex" (1911). O. Rank showed how Hamlet’s story relates to the myth of the hero’s birth. Other attempts to analyze Macbeth can be found in my essay "Some Character Types Met with in Psycho-Analytic Work," Collected Papers, IV, and in Jeckel’s "Shakespeare’s Macbeth," Imago, 1918, and "The Oedipus Complex as an Explanation of Hamlet’s Mystery" (American Journal of Psychology, 1910).
