Many writers who study dreams talk about something called condensation, where ideas in dreams get squished together. Du Prel, in his book Philosophie der Mystik, is sure that this kind of squishing of ideas happens in dreams.

When thinking about this, we can remember what climbing stairs in dreams means, which is explained in the chapter about symbols.

In the story Faust I, there is an example of this.

A strange part of a dream about the dreamer’s wet-nurse is that the nurse was actually his mother. Also, the young man’s regret about not making the most of his time with the wet-nurse probably caused his dream.

The translator added a note because the author’s original example couldn’t be translated.

Sometimes, the way sounds and syllables mix in dreams is like a kind of word chemistry, which also happens in jokes when we are awake. For example, a funny question might be: "What is the cheapest way to get silver? You pick silverberries from a field, then get rid of the berries, leaving the silver." The first person who read this book said the dreamer often seems too clever. That’s true for the dreamer, but it’s not fair to say the person interpreting the dream is clever because of this. In real life, the author doesn’t think he is that witty. If his dreams seem smart, it’s because dreams have to be creative since they can’t say things directly. Readers can see that patients’ dreams can be just as clever or even more so. This idea made the author compare how jokes work with how dreams work.

Lasker died from paralysis caused by an infection he got from a woman (syphilis). Lasalle, who also had syphilis, died in a duel over a woman he liked.

A young man with obsessive thoughts but sharp thinking was an exception to a rule about dreams. The speeches in his dreams weren’t from things he heard or said but were clear expressions of his obsessive thoughts, which he only noticed in a changed way when awake.

The importance or emotional weight of an idea is different from how strong or clear the idea is.

“The doer gained” is a phrase used here.

Since the author believes that dream distortion happens because of a kind of mental censorship, he quotes a story called Traumen wie Wachen from Phantasien eines Realisten, which supports this idea.

He has also done full analyses of two dreams in a work called Bruchstuck einer Hysterieanalyse, translated as Fragment of an Analysis of a Case of Hysteria. O. Rank’s analysis, Ein Traum der sich selbst deutet, is known as a detailed interpretation of a long dream.

K. Abel wrote a book called Der Gegensinn der Urworte, where he found that the oldest languages worked like dreams in some ways.

These languages originally used one word for opposite ideas like strong and weak, old and young, far and near, or bind and separate. Only later did they create separate words for these opposites by changing the original word a little. Abel showed many examples of this in ancient Egyptian and found similar patterns in Semitic and Indo-Germanic languages.
