Soon, we will see the idea of something indecent in all its three physical forms. In the same story called Germinal, which is about a future revolution, there is a strange contest described that involves making a certain kind of gas called flatus.

I have noticed that this idea of flatus has been hinted at for a long time. It started with flowers, then a Spanish rhyme about Isabelita, then Ferdinand and Isabella, and later Henry VIII. It even connects to English history during the time of the Armada, when England won and made a medal with the words: "Flavit et dissipati sunt," meaning the storm blew the Spanish fleet away.

I thought about using this phrase as a funny title for a chapter about "Therapy," if I ever explain my ideas and treatment of hysteria in detail. But I can’t give a full explanation of the second part of the dream because of censorship rules.

At this point, I think about a famous man from the revolutionary time who had an adventure with an eagle and was said to have problems with controlling his bowels. I don’t think I could get this past the censors, even though a royal advisor told me most of this story.

The rooms in the dream come from this man’s private train carriage, which I got to see briefly. In dreams, such a room often symbolizes a woman. The housekeeper in the dream is a not-so-nice reference to a clever old lady, which isn’t fair to her because I enjoyed her company and stories.

The lamp in the dream reminds me of Grillparzer, who told a similar charming story used later in a play called Hero and Leander, where the sea and love’s waves are like the Armada and the storm.

I won’t analyze the last parts of the dream in detail. I will only pick out things that remind me of two childhood scenes, which is why I chose this dream. You can guess that these parts are about sex, which is why I hide them. But that’s not the full reason.

There are many things I don’t hide from myself, but I have to keep secret when talking to others. This isn’t about why I hide the answers but about why my own mind hides the true meaning of the dream from me.

I admit that these three parts of the dream show bragging and wild daydreaming about being great, which I had stopped doing in real life. But these feelings still appear in parts of the dream, making the happy mood of the night before the dream easy to understand.

Bragging of all kinds shows up here. For example, mentioning Graz points to the phrase: "What price Graz?" which people say when they feel rich. If you know the funny stories of Gargantua and Pantagruel by Master Rabelais, you can see the first part of the dream as bragging too.

But the next part is about my two childhood memories. I bought a new trunk for a trip, the color of which, a brownish violet, appears several times in the dream. Kids believe new things make others notice them.

I was told a story from when I was two years old. I sometimes wet the bed and was scolded for it. To comfort my dad, I promised to buy him a nice new red bed in the nearest big town, N. So, the dream shows that we bought a urinal in the city or had to buy one because promises must be kept. Notice how the male urinal and the girl’s trunk are linked.

All the child’s bragging is in that promise. Dreams about problems peeing in children have been studied before. Psychoanalysis shows a strong link between bedwetting and being ambitious.

When I was seven or eight, another memory sticks out. One night, before bed, I didn’t follow the rules and peed in my parents’ bedroom while they were there. My dad scolded me, saying, "That boy will never amount to anything."

That was a big insult to my ambition. This memory comes back again and again in my dreams, always with me listing my successes, like saying, "See, I did become someone."

This childhood story is part of the last image of the dream, where the roles are switched. The old man, probably my dad (he had one blind eye because of glaucoma), is now peeing in front of me like I did before him.

Because of the glaucoma, I remind my dad of cocaine, which helped him during his eye operation, as if I kept my promise. I also tease him since he’s blind, and I have to hold the glass for him. I enjoy showing off what I know about hysteria, something I am proud of.

If these two childhood scenes about peeing relate to wanting to be great, their return in the dream was helped by the fact that my train compartment had no bathroom, so I had to hold it in during the trip. That actually happened because I woke up feeling I needed to go.

Some might think this feeling made me dream it, but I believe the dream thoughts made me feel the need first. It’s rare for me to wake up needing the bathroom, especially so early at 3:45 a.m.

I also want to say that I hardly ever feel that way on other trips when conditions are better. But I don’t need to decide this for my argument to hold.
