The reason why this subject is important also causes some problems in the next chapters. There are many gaps in this explanation because the problem of how dreams form is connected to bigger problems in mental health. These bigger problems can’t be covered here, but maybe if I have more time and information, I can write about them later.

The kind of material I had to use to explain dream interpretation made writing this book hard.

When I looked at different methods for interpreting dreams, I saw that dreams found in books or collected by strangers were not useful for me. I had to choose between my own dreams and those of my patients. But I couldn’t use my patients’ dreams because their minds were too complicated by mental issues. If I told my own dreams, I would have to share private parts of my mind with strangers, which I don’t like and which doesn’t seem right for a scientist. It’s painful, but I had to do it to prove my ideas about psychology. Sometimes I left out or changed parts to protect my privacy, but that made the examples less useful. I hope readers understand this hard situation and are kind. I also hope the people whose dreams I shared won’t try to stop the freedom to think about dreams.

In the next part, I will show that there is a way to understand dreams through psychology. Using this method, every dream can be explained as something meaningful that fits into our waking mental life. I will also explain why dreams seem strange and unclear, and what mental forces cause our dreams. After that, my study will end, because the problem of dreams connects to bigger issues that need different kinds of information.

I will start by briefly talking about what earlier writers thought about dreams and how science sees the problem today, since I won’t mention these often later. Even after thousands of years, we still don’t understand dreams well scientifically. Many people have said this, so I don’t need to quote them all. At the end of this book, you will find many interesting ideas about dreams, but little that really explains what dreams are or solves their mysteries. Regular people know even less about this.

The idea of dreams held by ancient, primitive people, and how these ideas influenced their thoughts about the universe and the soul, is very interesting. I don’t want to skip this topic, but I won’t go into it here. Instead, I recommend books by famous writers like Sir John Lubbock, Herbert Spencer, and E. B. Tylor. We won’t fully understand these ideas until we finish interpreting dreams as I plan.

The ancient people believed dreams came from the supernatural beings they believed in. They thought dreams brought messages from gods or demons and usually predicted the future. Because dreams vary so much and affect people differently, it was hard to make one clear idea about them. So, people made many groups and categories for dreams based on how valuable or trustworthy they seemed. How philosophers in ancient times valued dreams depended on how much they believed in magic and prophecy.

In two works by Aristotle that mention dreams, they were already seen as a psychology problem. He said dreams were not sent by gods but had a demonic origin.
