It’s clear that certain processes happen when we dream, and these are very similar to what happens when someone develops hysterical symptoms. But dreaming isn’t a sickness or a problem; it doesn’t mean our mind is out of balance, and it doesn’t make us less capable or less effective.

Some might say you can’t learn about normal people’s dreams by looking at my own dreams or those of my patients with mental issues, but that’s not worth arguing about. If we think about what causes these things, we find that the mental system used in neuroses isn’t something new or caused by illness. It’s already part of how our minds normally work.

There are two mental systems, a kind of mental filter between them, and ways one system can block or cover up the other. These things are all part of how our minds normally function, and dreams show us one way to understand this system. If we want to be sure about what we know, we can say that dreams prove that the things we push away in our minds still exist and can affect us, even in healthy people.

Dreams are one way these hidden thoughts come out. This is true in theory for everyone, and in real life, it’s been seen clearly in many cases where dreams show strong examples. The mental stuff we block when we’re awake, because different parts of our mind cancel each other out, finds ways to show up in our dreams at night.

“Flectere si nequeo superos, Acheronta movebo.” This means, if I can’t reach the gods above, I’ll stir up the underworld. In other words, understanding dreams is the best way to learn about the hidden parts of our mind.

By studying dreams, we get some idea of how our amazing and mysterious mind works. This only helps a little, but it’s a start. From there, looking at other mental issues, we can understand more. Mental illnesses don’t always mean the mind’s system is broken or split in new ways. They can happen when some parts of the mind become stronger or weaker, while others stay hidden during normal life.

It could be shown how having two parts in our mind allows it to work in ways a single system couldn’t. If we look closer, the mental ideas from the last chapter show we should think of two kinds of mental processes, not just two places in the mind. This doesn’t confuse us, because we should be ready to change our ideas when we get closer to the truth.

Let’s fix some wrong ideas about the two systems. When we say an unconscious thought tries to become conscious, we don’t mean it makes a copy somewhere else while the original stays. Similarly, when a thought becomes conscious, it doesn’t move to a new place. When we say a thought is pushed out of consciousness and goes back to being unconscious, we shouldn’t imagine it like a battle for space.

Instead, we should think that the energy or attention given to a thought moves to or away from it, so the thought is controlled by one part of the mind or another. Here, instead of thinking about mental ideas moving, we think about the energy or focus changing. Even so, it’s okay to keep using the idea of two systems as an example, if we remember that thoughts aren’t located in specific brain parts but exist between them, where connections form.

Everything we can think about inside our mind is only real in a way, like an image in a telescope made by light rays crossing. We can think of the two mental systems like lenses in a telescope that create this image. The filter between the two systems is like the way light bends when it passes into a new medium.

So far, we’ve built our ideas on our own. Now, it’s time to look at current psychology ideas and compare them with ours. According to Lipps, the problem of the unconscious mind is really the biggest problem in psychology. In the past, psychology just said the mind is what we are aware of, and that unconscious mental events don’t really exist. Because of that, doctors couldn’t use their experience with mental illness to help psychology grow.

Doctors and philosophers can only work together when they both accept that unconscious mental processes are real and important facts.
