Besides the first problem, which is that outside things don’t often cause dreams, there’s a second problem. This is that the explanations about dreams coming from these outside sources don’t really make sense. People who believe this theory haven’t explained two important things: first, why we never see the true cause of the outside stimulus in our dreams, but always mistake it for something else; and second, why our minds react to these misunderstood stimuli in such random and different ways.

Strumpell tried to answer these questions by saying that because the mind turns away from the outside world during sleep, it can’t understand the real meaning of the sensory signals. Instead, it has to create illusions from unclear signals coming from many directions. He said that when a nerve stimulus causes a feeling or thought during sleep, the mind brings up images from past experiences. These images mix with the nerve stimulus to give the dream its meaning. This process is like the mind interpreting signals during sleep, which creates what’s called a nerve-stimulus dream. Wundt agreed, saying most dreams come from sensory signals and are mostly illusions, not real memories or hallucinations.

To explain how dreams relate to these stimuli, Strumpell used a good example: it’s like someone who doesn’t know music randomly pressing keys on a piano. This means dreams aren’t made for a reason or from the mind’s motives; they just happen because the body reacts to signals in a way it can’t express any other way. Meynert used a similar idea to explain obsessions, comparing them to numbers deeply pressed on a dial.

Even though this theory about body signals causing dreams is popular and seems convincing, it has a big weakness. Every body signal can cause the mind to try many different interpretations, so dreams could be full of all kinds of ideas. But Strumpell and Wundt’s theory can’t explain why a certain idea is chosen to represent a signal in a dream. It doesn’t explain the “strange choices” the mind makes during dreams.

Some people also disagree with the idea that the mind can’t understand real signals during sleep. The old scientist Burdach showed that the mind can interpret important signals even while sleeping. For example, a nurse can hear a baby crying, or you are more likely to wake up when you hear your name than some random noise. This means the mind does recognize important signals during sleep but might just not care about others.

Burdach’s arguments from 1830 were later used by Lipps in 1883 to criticize the theory of body signals causing dreams. Lipps compared the mind in sleep to a person who says they are not asleep but then uses sleep as an excuse to avoid lending money.

We can also see the problems with this theory in other ways. Just because something touches me while I’m asleep doesn’t mean I will dream about it. I might not notice it at all, or I might feel it but not include it in a dream, or I might just wake up because of it. Sometimes, the body stimulus causes a dream, but this happens just as often as any of the other reactions. If dreaming was only caused by these body signals, it wouldn’t be so random.

Because of these big gaps in the theory that dreams come from body signals, other thinkers like Scherner and Volkelt tried to better understand what the mind does during dreaming. They looked at dreaming as a mental activity and believed dreams come from the mind working on these signals in a special way. Scherner described dreaming as the mind’s imagination being free while asleep, trying to symbolically show where the signal is coming from in the body.
