He would get up early, exercise, eat only healthy food, and most importantly, refuse any more dinner invitations.

She jokingly tells how her husband met an artist at a shared meal, and the artist wanted to paint his picture because he had never seen such an interesting face. But her husband said honestly that he didn’t want to be painted and thought the artist would prefer painting a pretty girl’s behind instead of his face. She really loves her husband and teases him a lot. She even asked him not to give her any caviar. What could that mean?

Goethe: And if he has no backside, how can the nobleman sit?

Actually, she had wanted to eat a caviar sandwich every morning for a long time but didn’t want to spend the money. Of course, she could have just asked her husband for some, but she pretended not to want any so she could tease him longer.

(To me, this explanation feels weak. People often hide their real reasons behind weak excuses. It reminds me of people under hypnosis who do things but make up silly reasons when asked why. Probably something like this is going on with her caviar. In her real life, she feels she has to invent a wish she hasn’t fulfilled. Her dream also shows this unfulfilled wish. But why does she need to have an unfulfilled wish?) The ideas so far don’t fully explain the dream. I ask her more questions. After a short pause, which shows she is overcoming some mental block, she says she visited a friend the day before, a friend she is really jealous of because her husband always praises that woman. Luckily, the friend is very thin, and her husband likes women with fuller figures. What did the thin friend talk about? Of course, she said she wanted to gain some weight. She also asked my patient, “When will you invite us again? You always serve such good food.” Now the dream’s meaning is clear. I tell her: “It’s like you thought when she asked you: ‘Of course, I’m supposed to invite you so you can eat at my house, get fat, and look even better to my husband! I’d rather not have any more dinners!’ The dream shows you can’t host a dinner, so your wish not to help your friend get bigger is fulfilled. Your husband’s plan to refuse dinner invitations so he can lose weight teaches you that eating at others’ tables makes people gain weight.” The last thing missing is a coincidence to prove this idea. The smoked salmon in the dream hasn’t been explained yet. “Why did you think of salmon in your dream?” I ask. “Smoked salmon is my friend’s favorite dish,” she says. I know the friend and can confirm she also tries not to spend money on salmon, just like my patient does with caviar.

This dream can be understood in another, more exact way, because of a small detail. Both explanations don’t contradict each other but fit together well and show how dreams can have more than one meaning, like many mental problems. We know that when she dreamed of a wish not coming true, she was also forcing herself to deny a real wish (to eat caviar sandwiches). Her friend also had a wish—to get fatter—and it wouldn’t surprise us if the patient dreamed that her friend’s wish didn’t happen. But instead, she dreamed that her own wish didn’t happen. The dream can be read differently if in it she means her friend, not herself, if she put herself in her friend’s place, or “identified” with her friend.

I think she actually did this, and to show this identification she created an unfulfilled wish for herself in real life. But what does this kind of “hysterical identification” mean? To explain this better, more details are needed. Identification is very important in how hysterical symptoms work; it lets patients express not only their own feelings but also the feelings of many other people. They can suffer for lots of people at once and take on many roles in a kind of mental play. Some might say this is just hysterical imitation—the way these patients copy symptoms they see in others, as if they feel sorry and reproduce them. But this only shows the path the mind takes in hysterical imitation. The actual mental process is more complicated; it is an unconscious final step, as an example shows. A doctor who has a female patient with a certain kind of twitching isn’t surprised if other patients start having the same twitch. He thinks they just saw her and copied it; this is called psychic infection. But psychic infection happens like this: Patients know more about each other than the doctor does and care about each other after the doctor leaves. One has an attack today; the others quickly learn it was caused by a letter from home, or missing a loved one. Their sympathy grows, and even if they don’t realize it, they think: “If she can have this attack from that cause, I might have the same attack because of the same reason.” If they thought about this clearly, they might be scared of getting the attack too, but this thought happens in another part of the mind. So, they actually end up having the same symptoms. So, identification is not just copying, but taking on something based on the same cause; it shows a connection and refers to a shared unconscious condition.
