I was probably around ten or twelve years old when my dad started taking me on walks with him. During these walks, he would talk about what he thought about life and the world. One time, he told me a story to show that I was living in better times than he did. He said, "When I was young, I was walking one Saturday in the village where you were born. I was dressed nicely and wearing a new fur hat. Then a man came up, knocked my hat into the mud, and shouted, 'Jew, get off the pavement!'" I asked, "What did you do?" He said calmly, "I went into the street and picked up my hat." That didn’t seem very brave to me, especially since he was a big, strong man holding my hand.

I didn’t like that story, and I thought about another one that felt more exciting to me. It was about Hannibal’s father making him promise to get back at the Romans. Since then, Hannibal has been a hero in my imagination. I think my interest in Hannibal started even before I understood it, probably from my childhood feelings. One of the first books I read was about the time of Napoleon, and I even put labels with the names of Napoleon’s marshals on my toy soldiers. I liked Massena best, maybe because we were born on the same day, a hundred years apart. Napoleon reminded me of Hannibal because they both crossed the Alps. Maybe my love for warriors began even earlier, during the times I played and fought with a boy a year older than me. When we study dreams, we often find that childhood experiences are the source of what we dream about.

We have learned that dreams don’t usually replay memories exactly as they happened. But sometimes, real memories do show up in dreams, mostly from childhood. I remember a patient who dreamed about something that happened when he was twelve. He visited a sick classmate who accidentally showed himself by moving in bed. The boy felt a strange urge and copied what the classmate did, but then got embarrassed and stopped when the classmate looked upset. Twenty-three years later, he dreamed the same scene, but with him acting differently and the classmate replaced by someone else.

Usually, childhood scenes only show up in dreams as hints, and we need to figure out their meaning. It’s hard to prove these are really from childhood because we don’t always remember them clearly. But in psychoanalysis, many signs together help us trust that childhood memories do appear in dreams. Even if these examples don’t seem very clear by themselves, I will share a few.

One female patient’s dreams always felt rushed. She was always hurrying not to be late or miss a train. In one dream, she had to visit a friend, and her mom told her to ride a horse, but she ran while calling out. When we talked about this dream, it reminded her of childhood games where kids quickly said sentences as one word. These fun games replaced other, less fun memories from her past.

Another female patient dreamed she was in a big room full of machines, like a place for fixing bones. She heard I was busy and she had to do a treatment with five other people. But she didn’t want to lie down on the bed and waited for me to say it wasn’t true. The others laughed at her, saying she was acting silly. She also felt like she had to make little squares.

The first part of this dream hints at her treatment and how she felt about me. The second part connects to a childhood memory, both linked by the bed. The machine room refers to something I said once about how long and what kind of treatment she would have.
