If these additions don’t always fit perfectly into the original book, or if the earlier text doesn’t match what we know now, please forgive me. This is just because science keeps moving forward so fast. I even want to guess how future versions of this book – if people want more – might change. Dream interpretation should connect more with poetry, myths, and common sayings. It should also look more carefully at how dreams relate to mental illnesses and nervous problems.

Mr. Otto Rank helped me a lot by picking extra examples and checking the proofs of this edition. I want to thank him and many other friends for their help and corrections.

Vienna, 1911

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION  
It’s surprising that people asked for a second edition of this book – which isn’t an easy read – before ten years had passed. This wasn’t because doctors were super interested. My psychiatrist friends didn’t seem to look past their surprise at my new ideas about dreams. The professional philosophers, who usually explain dreams in just a few sentences, didn’t realize that dreams could actually change our basic ideas about psychology. Scientists reviewing the book mostly expected it to be forgotten. And the small group of followers who use my therapy and dream interpretation method probably didn’t finish the first edition. So, I want to thank the many curious and thoughtful readers whose support made me want to work on this difficult book again after nine years.

I’m happy to say I didn’t find much in the book that needed changing. I added some new information and shared ideas based on more experience, or explained some points better. But the main parts about dreams and their meaning, and the psychological ideas from them, stayed the same. At least to me, they have stood the test of time. People who know my other work about mental illnesses will see that I don’t claim my work is finished too soon. I always try to update my ideas as I learn more. But about dreams, I still agree with what I wrote first. In my years working on mental illness, I’ve sometimes doubted myself or made mistakes. But understanding dreams always helped me feel sure again. My many scientific opponents are smart to avoid following me into the study of dreams.

Even the parts of this book, even my own dreams, which might be old or replaced by new ideas, showed a connection that didn’t need changing when I re-read it. For me, this book means more personally than I realized before finishing it. It shows my self-examination and my reaction to my father’s death – the hardest and most important loss in a person’s life. Once I understood this, I didn’t want to erase the signs of that influence. But for readers, the examples used to teach dream interpretation won’t really matter.

When I had to add comments that didn’t fit into the original text, I marked them with square brackets to show they weren’t in the first edition.

Berchtesgaden, 1908

INTRODUCTORY NOTE (to the first edition)  
In this book, I tried to explain how to understand dreams and what we learn from them. I don’t think I went beyond what brain science can explain. Dreams are the first in a series of unusual mental experiences. After dreams come things like phobias (fears), obsessions, and delusions (false beliefs), which doctors must focus on more closely. Dreams might not be very important for treatment, but they are very important for understanding how the mind works. Doctors who can’t explain where dreams come from won’t be able to understand fears, obsessions, or delusions, or help treat them.
