There is a kind of dream book that helps explain what our dreams mean. It shows how feelings in our body and how our organs are doing can be guessed from the pictures in our dreams. For example, dreaming of a cat might mean someone is really grumpy. Dreaming of pale, smooth pastry can mean the body feels naked. In dreams, the whole body can look like a house, and different parts of the body are like parts of that house. When you dream about a toothache, the mouth might look like a fancy hall, and a staircase might show the path from the throat to the stomach. A headache dream might show a ceiling covered with gross spiders to mean the top of the head.

Dreams use lots of different symbols for the same body parts. For example, lungs might be like a roaring stove with flames, the heart might be empty boxes, and the bladder might be round, bag-like shapes. Often, near the end of a dream, the body part or its problem shows up clearly on the dreamer’s own body. So, in a toothache dream, the dreamer might pull a tooth out of their mouth. But not many other writers have liked this idea. It sounds a bit wild, so people haven’t given it much credit. This idea is a bit like old ways of understanding dreams that use symbols, but it only looks at the body for meaning. The problem is there’s no clear, scientific way to explain these dream symbols. This makes it hard to believe. Also, the same body part can be shown by many different symbols, which makes it confusing. Even one of Scherner’s followers couldn’t prove that the body really looks like a house in dreams. Another problem is that this theory thinks dreams are just random pictures the mind makes around body feelings, without trying to stop those feelings.

Another big problem with Scherner’s idea is that body feelings are always there, and the mind is more open to them when we sleep. So, it’s strange that we don’t dream all night long or dream about every body part every night. If we say only strong body feelings cause dreams, it’s hard to prove when or why that happens. For example, if flying dreams mean the lungs are moving up and down, those dreams should happen a lot, or we should see the lungs working harder then. The most likely idea is that sometimes something makes us notice body feelings more than usual, but that goes beyond Scherner’s theory.

The good thing about Scherner’s and Volkelt’s work is that they made us think about some interesting parts of dreams that need better explanations. It’s true that body parts and feelings do show up in dreams as symbols. For example, water in a dream can mean needing to pee, and a tall stick or pillar can mean the male private parts. Dreams with bright colors probably come from seeing things while asleep, and dreams with lots of noise might be caused by hearing sounds. Some of Scherner’s strange dream stories, like boys fighting on a bridge and then pulling out a tooth, or drawers playing a part and ending with a tooth pulled out, make us think there might be some truth in his ideas. So, we shouldn’t just ignore his theory without looking for the real meaning behind these dream symbols.

When we think about where dreams come from, I haven’t talked about what we learn from studying dreams closely. If we can show that dreams have real meaning inside our minds, that they come from wishes, and that what happened the day before is the main part of the dream, then other ideas that say dreams are just useless reactions to body feelings don’t make much sense. It would be strange if there were two kinds of dreams, one that we see and one that old writers saw. We now need to figure out how to include the facts about body feelings in our own ideas about dreams.

We already started doing this by saying the mind tries to make one whole dream out of all the things it feels at once. If two or more things from the day stick in the mind, the wishes from them mix into one dream. Also, important feelings and less important experiences from the day join together in the dream, as long as the mind can find a way to connect them. So, a dream reacts to everything the mind is feeling while sleeping. When we look at dreams, we see they are made of bits of memories and feelings, especially recent ones and childhood ones, which seem very real to the mind even if we don’t understand exactly why. Now, when we add real body feelings during sleep to these memories, these feelings become part of the dream too. They are important because they are real to the mind and help make the dream happen.
