But in order to show how constantly this reference may be demonstrated, I shall examine a portion of my own dream- chronicle, I shall relate only so much of the dreams as is necessary for the detection of the dream-source in question.
 
 1. I pay a call at a house to which I gain admittance only with difficulty, etc., and meanwhile I am keeping a woman waiting for me.
 
 Source: A conversation during the evening with a female relative to the effect that she would have to wait for a remittance for which she had asked, until... etc.
 
 2. I have written a monograph on a species (uncertain) of plant.
 
 Source: In the morning I had seen in a bookseller's window a monograph on the genus Cyclamen.
 
 3. I see two women in the street, mother and daughter, the latter being a patient.
 
 Source: A female patient who is under treatment had told me in the evening what difficulties her mother puts in the way of her continuing the treatment.
 
 4. At S and R's bookshop I subscribe to a periodical which costs 20 florins annually.
 
 Source: During the day my wife has reminded me that I still owe her 20 florins of her weekly allowance.
 
 5. I receive a communication from the Social Democratic Committee, in which I am addressed as a member.
 
 Source: I have received simultaneous communications from the Liberal Committee on Elections and from the president of the Humanitarian Society, of which latter I am actually a member.
 
 6. A man on a steep rock rising from the sea, in the manner of Bocklin.
 
 Source: Dreyfus on Devil's Island; also news from my relatives in England, etc.
 
 The question might be raised, whether a dream invariably refers to the events of the preceding day only, or whether the reference may be extended to include impressions from a longer period of time in the immediate past. This question is probably not of the first importance, but I am inclined to decide in favour of the exclusive priority of the day before the dream (the dream-day). Whenever I thought I had found a case where an impression two or three days old was the source of the dream, I was able to convince myself after careful investigation that this impression had been remembered the day before; that is, that a demonstrable reproduction on the day before had been interpolated between the day of the event and the time of the dream; and further, I was able to point to the recent occasion which might have given rise to the recollection of the older impression. On the other hand, I was unable to convince myself that a regular interval of biological significance (H. Swoboda gives the first interval of this kind as eighteen hours) elapses between the dream-exciting daytime impression and its recurrence in the dream.
 
 I believe, therefore, that for every dream a dream-stimulus may be found among these experiences "on which one has not yet slept." Havelock Ellis, who has likewise given attention to this problem, states that he has not been able to find any such periodicity of reproduction in his dreams, although he has looked for it. He relates a dream in which he found himself in Spain; he wanted to travel to a place called Daraus, Varaus, or Zaraus. On awaking he was unable to recall any such place-names, and thought no more of the matter. A few months later he actually found the name Zaraus; it was that of a railway-station between San Sebastian and Bilbao, through which he had passed in the train eight months (250 days) before the date of the dream.
 
 Thus the impressions of the immediate past (with the exception of the day before the night of the dream) stand in the same relation to the dreamcontent as those of periods indefinitely remote. The dream may select its material from any period of life, provided only that a chain of thought leads back from the experiences of the day of the dream (the recent impressions) of that earlier period.
 
 But why this preference for recent impressions? We shall arrive at some conjectures on this point if we subject one of the dreams already mentioned to a more precise analysis. I select the Dream of the Botanical Monograph I have written a monograph on a certain plant. The book lies before me; I am just turning over a folded coloured plate. A dried specimen of the plant, as though from a herbarium, is bound up with every copy.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
