Since he was really interested, he told his older brother about the dream. His brother laughed and said it was true. He remembered it clearly because he was six years old then. The lovers used to get him, the older boy, drunk with beer whenever they had their nighttime meetings. The younger boy, who had the dream and was three years old then, slept in the same room as the nurse but wasn’t seen as a problem.

In another case, it’s clear without guessing that the dream has parts from childhood. This happens when the dream is a “perennial dream,” meaning it started in childhood and keeps happening in adulthood. I can add some examples even though I don’t know any perennial dreams personally. One doctor in his thirties told me about a yellow lion that he has dreamed about many times since he was a kid. One day, he found a real china lion that looked just like the one in his dreams. His mother then told him that the lion was his favorite toy when he was little, but he didn’t remember that himself.

If we look deeper than the obvious parts of the dream, childhood experiences can show up even in dreams that don’t seem related. A friend of mine, the “yellow lion” doctor, had a funny and useful example. After reading about Nansen’s polar trip, he dreamed that he was giving Nansen an electrical treatment on an ice floe for his sciatica pain! When we looked closely at the dream, he remembered a childhood moment that explained it. When he was three or four, he overheard adults talking about exploration and asked his dad if exploration was a bad illness. He had mixed up the words for “journey” and “pain,” and his siblings made fun of him so much that he never forgot it.

I had a similar experience when I analyzed a dream about cyclamen flowers. I found a childhood memory of when I was five and my dad let me tear up a book that had pretty pictures. Some might doubt if this memory really influenced the dream, but the many connections between ideas made me sure it did: cyclamen was my favorite flower, which reminded me of my favorite food artichoke, which is picked apart leaf by leaf, and there was a phrase about dividing the Chinese empire like an artichoke. Also, herbariums and bookworms, which eat books, all linked together. The real meaning of the dream was closely tied to that childhood memory of destroying the book.

In other dreams, the wish behind the dream started in childhood too. It’s surprising to see how the child inside us keeps living in our dreams.

Now, I want to continue explaining a dream I had about my friend R being my uncle. We already figured out that the dream showed my wish to become a professor and my feelings against two colleagues in the dream. But I wasn’t fully happy with this explanation. I knew I wouldn’t speak badly about those colleagues when awake, and my wish to avoid their fate seemed too weak to explain the dream. If I really wanted the new title badly, that would show unhealthy ambition, which I don’t think I have. Maybe other people think I’m ambitious, but if so, it’s about other goals, not the professor title.

So where did the ambition in the dream come from? I remembered a story from my childhood. When I was born, an old peasant woman told my happy mother that I would become a great man. Such predictions are common because many hopeful mothers meet old women who like to predict the future. Maybe my desire for greatness came from that. But I also recalled something else from when I was eleven or twelve. One evening at a restaurant, a man was going around making up poems for money. I was asked to bring him to our table. He thanked us and made some rhymes about me. He said, if he was right, I would probably become a minister one day. I still remember how that prediction felt. It was during the time of the "bourgeois Ministry," and my dad had brought home pictures of important university graduates. We even lit up the house to honor them. Some of those graduates were Jewish, so every hardworking Jewish schoolboy dreamed of having a ministerial job someday.
