4. His neck was lightly pinched. He dreamed that a blister was being put on, and thought about a doctor who had treated him when he was a kid.

5. A hot iron was brought close to his face. He dreamed that drivers had broken into the house and were forcing the people inside to give up their money by pushing their feet into hot pans. Then the Duchesse d'Abrantes, whose secretary he thought he was, came into the room.

6. A drop of water fell on his forehead. He imagined he was in Italy, sweating a lot and drinking white wine from Orvieto.

7. When the red candlelight shone on his face, he dreamed of thunder, heat, and a storm at sea he once saw in the English Channel.

Hervey, Weygandt, and others have tried to make people dream on purpose.

Many noticed that dreams can mix in sudden sounds or feelings from outside, turning them into parts of the dream that seem like a disaster is coming. Hildebrandt said, "I used an alarm clock to wake up at a certain time many times. The alarm sound often fit perfectly into a long dream, like the dream was made just for that sound to be the big ending." I will soon tell three of these alarm-clock dreams for another reason.

Volkelt tells a story: "A composer dreamed he was teaching a class. After explaining something, he asked a boy if he understood. The boy shouted 'Oh, yes!' angrily. Then the whole class started yelling strange words, and the composer woke up because there was a real fire alarm outside." Garnier wrote that Napoleon I once woke up from a dream during an explosion and thought he was in a battle, shouting "We have been undermined." Maury had a famous dream: He was sick in bed with his mom beside him. He dreamed about the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution. He saw horrible murders and was called before the court. He saw famous men from that time and was sentenced to death. He was led to the execution place, tied to the platform, which tipped over, and the guillotine blade fell. He felt his head cut off and woke up very scared, only to find that the headboard of his bed had fallen and hit his neck just where the blade would have fallen.

This dream started a big discussion about how someone can fit so many dream scenes in the short time between hearing a real sound and waking up.

These examples show that real sounds or things happening while people sleep are some of the strongest causes for dreams. In fact, these are the only causes most people know about. If you ask someone who knows a bit about dreams but not much about the science, they will probably say dreams happen because of real things happening around you while you sleep.

But science wants to know more because the real sound or thing doesn’t appear exactly the same in the dream. Instead, it changes into something related but different. Maury said the connection between the real thing and the dream is "some kind of link but not the only one." For example, if you read three of Hildebrandt’s alarm-clock dreams, you will wonder why the same sound caused very different dreams, and why those dreams, not others.

(p. 37): "I’m walking on a nice spring morning. I go through green fields to a nearby village. I see many people going to church, dressed up and holding hymn-books. I remember it’s Sunday and the service will start soon. I decide to go in but feel too hot, so I wait outside in the churchyard until I cool down.

While reading the gravestones, I hear the church worker climbing the tower, and I see the small bell that is about to ring the service. It hangs still for a moment, then swings and rings so clearly that I wake up. But the bell sound was actually the alarm clock." "A second combination.
