Spitta points out some key ways dreams and insanity are similar, grouping them like Maury did: (1) In both, people lose or slow down self-awareness, don’t realize their situation, can’t really be surprised, and lack a sense of right and wrong. (2) Senses change—usually weaker in dreams but stronger in insanity. (3) Ideas connect automatically without logic, leading to strange or exaggerated thoughts. (4) Changes happen in personality, sometimes even strange changes in character. Radestock adds that most hallucinations affect sight, hearing, and touch, just like in dreams, while smell and taste are rarely involved. Both dreamers and sick people remember old memories that healthy people forget. The full connection between dreams and mental illness is clear when you notice how even facial expressions can be similar.

For someone suffering physically or mentally, dreams give them what real life doesn’t—feeling good and happy. Likewise, insane people see bright images of happiness, success, and wealth. Their delusions often involve owning things or fulfilling wishes that were actually lost or caused their illness. A mother who lost a child might dream of having a baby again; a man who lost money might believe he’s rich; a girl who was rejected might see herself loved. Radestock, summarizing Griesinger, shows that both dreams and insanity involve wishful thinking. My own research confirms that this is key to understanding both.

Both dreams and insanity share odd ideas and poor judgment. People often overestimate their mental abilities, which seems silly to others. The fast flow of thoughts in dreams matches that in mental illness. Neither has a clear sense of time. In dreams, a person’s knowledge might be split between two characters, one correcting the other—this is like the split personality seen in some mental illnesses. Dreamers even hear their own thoughts as voices, similar to hallucinations in paranoia. Recurring strange ideas in dreams have their match in repeated pathological dreams. After recovering from illness, patients often say their sickness felt like a bad dream and sometimes even thought they were dreaming while sick, just like in sleep.

Because of all this, Radestock and others believe that insanity is like an extreme version of the normal dream state.

Krauss tried to explain the link between dreams and insanity by looking at their causes, suggesting their connection is even closer than just how they seem. He said both are based on physical sensations coming from the body, a kind of general feeling from all the senses.

The many similarities between dreams and mental illness support the idea that dreams are a useless, disturbing process showing lowered mental activity. We can’t fully explain dreams by studying mental illness yet, because we don’t fully understand these illnesses themselves. But learning more about dreams will probably help us understand mental disorders better. So, by studying dreams, we’re also working toward understanding psychoses.

ADDENDUM 1909: I won’t be updating this summary with newer dream research because I believe what I’ve already covered is enough. Continuing would take a lot of work but wouldn’t really teach us much more.
