In hysteria, people often connect themselves to others through sexual feelings. A woman with hysteria usually shows her symptoms by linking herself to people she has been sexually involved with or who have been with the same people as her. Our language reflects this idea when we say two lovers are "one." Even just thinking about sexual relations can make someone identify with another person, like in dreams or fantasies.

For example, a woman might feel jealous of her friend, even if she knows it’s not fair. In her dream, she might imagine being her friend and even create a symptom to show this hidden wish. She puts herself in her friend’s place because her friend has taken her place with her husband, and she wants to be more loved by him.

Another patient, very smart, seemed to disagree with my idea that dreams fulfill wishes. She dreamed she was going to spend the summer with her mother-in-law, even though she hated that idea and had found a way to avoid it. This seemed to go against my theory, but the real meaning was deeper. The dream showed she wished I was wrong about something important from her past, even though she denied it. Later, we found out I was right, and the dream was her way of hoping those bad things never happened.

Once, I guessed the meaning of a dream for a friend who was a lawyer. After hearing me talk about dreams being wish-fulfillments, he dreamed he lost all his court cases and complained to me. I thought maybe he secretly wished I would mess up for once because I had always done better than him in school.

A young female patient told me a sad dream: she saw her sister’s only living son, Charles, dead in a coffin, just like when her favorite brother Otto died. She was upset and wondered if the dream meant she wished Charles would die, or that she wished Otto had died instead. I told her the second wasn’t true.

I knew her story well. She lost her parents early and was raised by an older sister. She fell in love with a man who visited their home, and they almost got married, but her sister stopped it. After Otto died, she became independent but couldn’t stop loving that man. She avoided him out of pride but couldn’t love anyone else.

She always went to his lectures and tried to see him secretly. The day before her dream, she told me she was going to a concert where he would be. The day of the dream was the concert day. She also told me that after Otto died, the man had come to the funeral. So, the dream meant she wanted to see him again and was imagining it through a sad scene like a funeral. The dream was about her impatience to meet him and used a sad situation to hide her true feelings, because love is not usually thought about in times of sorrow.
