This makes her think again about her visit to San Paolo (outside the walls) and the area nearby. She remembers that at the nearby monastery of the Three Fountains, she drank a drink made from eucalyptus made by the Trappist monks. She explains how the monks changed this swampy, malaria-filled area into a dry and healthy neighborhood by planting lots of eucalyptus trees.

The word "uclamparia" breaks down into "eucalyptus" and "malaria," and the word "wet" refers to how swampy the place used to be. "Wet" also hints at "dry." Dry is actually the name of the man she almost married, but he drank too much alcohol. The name Dry comes from a German word meaning "three," which connects to the monastery of the Three Fountains. When talking about Mr. Dry’s drinking, she said, "He could drink a fountain." Mr. Dry jokes about his drinking by saying, "You know I must drink because I am always dry," playing on his name.

The eucalyptus also relates to her anxiety, which was first thought to be malaria. She went to Italy because her anxiety attacks, which made her shake and shiver, were believed to be caused by malaria. She bought some eucalyptus oil from the monks and says it helped her a lot.

So, the word "uclamparia - wet" is the connection point for both her dream and her anxiety.

---

I had a long, confusing dream about a sea voyage. In the dream, the next stops were Hearsing and then Fliess. Fliess is the name of my friend in B, a city I’ve traveled to many times. Hearsing is made up from names of places near Vienna that often end with "ing": Hietzing, Liesing, Moedling (which used to be called Medelitz, meaning "my joy," which is like my own name, because the German word for joy is Freude). The English word "hearsay" means gossip and connects to a poem I read about a slanderous dwarf named Sagter Hatergesagt.

By mixing the "ing" ending with the name Fliess, I got Vlissingen, which is a real port my brother passes through when he visits us from England. In English, Vlissingen is called Flushing, which means blushing. This reminds me of patients who are afraid of blushing, a condition I sometimes treat. It also reminds me of a book by Bechterew about this fear, which made me angry.

---

Another time, I had a dream in two parts. The first part was the word "Autodidasker." The second part was a memory of a small, harmless idea I had a few days earlier. I had thought that when I next saw Professor N, I would tell him: "The patient we last talked about really has a neurosis, just like you guessed." The new word "Autodidasker" had to have a hidden meaning connected to my plan to give Professor N credit for his correct diagnosis.

"Autodidasker" can be broken into "author" (German "Autor"), "autodidact" (someone who teaches themselves), and "Lasker," which reminds me of "Lasalle." These words connect to the dream’s meaning. I had brought home books by a famous author who is a friend of my brother and comes from the same area as me (J. J. David). One night, my wife told me how moved she was by a sad story in one of David’s novels about wasted talents. We talked about the talents we see in our own kids.

Because of what she said, I told her that training can help avoid those dangers. That night, my thoughts went deeper, mixing my wife’s worries about our kids with other ideas. Something the novelist had told my brother about marriage led me to think about Breslau, where a good friend of ours had moved. I found Lasker and Lasalle there, examples that made me worry about how women might hurt men. This made me think about my brother, who is still married and named Alexander. The nickname "Alex" sounds a bit like "Lasker" backwards, which probably made my thoughts take a detour through Breslau.

---

Playing with names and syllables also has another meaning. It shows my hope that my brother will have a happy family life. In the novel "L’OEuvre," the author describes himself and his happy home under the name Sandoz. He probably made this name by changing "Zola" (a famous writer) by switching letters and mixing parts of the name Alexander. My word "Autodidasker" was made in a similar way.

---

My idea of telling Professor N that the patient really has a neurosis got into my dream this way: Near the end of my work year, I had a patient whose condition I couldn’t figure out. It seemed like a serious physical problem, maybe damage to the spinal cord, but I couldn’t be sure. It would have been easier to say it was a neurosis, but the patient strongly denied any sexual issues, and I don’t call something a neurosis without that.

I asked a doctor I really respect for help. He agreed that my doubts made sense and said, "Keep watching him, it’s probably a neurosis." Since I knew he didn’t agree with my ideas about what causes neuroses, I didn’t argue but kept my doubts to myself. A few days later, I told the patient I didn’t know how to help him and suggested he see someone else.
