It would have been really interesting if we could have written down all these dreams. But it’s easy to understand how much we wanted to sleep. Sleep was the one thing that could give us everything we really wanted.

Here’s a quote from Du Prel (p. 231): "Mungo Park, who was almost dying of thirst during his trip in Africa, kept dreaming about the green valleys and fields at home. 

Likewise, Trenck, who was starving in a fortress, dreamed of being surrounded by lots of food. And George Back, part of Franklin’s first trip, dreamed all the time about big meals when he was close to starving." A Hungarian saying mentioned by Ferenczi says, "The pig dreams of acorns, the goose dreams of corn." A Jewish saying asks, "What does the hen dream about?" The answer is "millet."

I’m not saying that no one before me thought about dreams as wishes. Even long ago, the doctor Herophilos, who lived under the First Ptolemy, said there were three kinds of dreams: dreams sent by gods; natural dreams, which happen when the soul makes images of good things that will happen; and mixed dreams, which come from just putting pictures together when we see what we want. From examples collected by Scherner, J. Starcke tells about a dream that the dreamer said was a wish coming true (p. 239). Scherner says: "The mind makes the dream wish come true because it was very strong in the dreamer’s head." This dream is an "emotional dream." There are also dreams caused by feelings about love or by bad moods. Scherner thinks wishes don’t mean more than any other feelings we have when awake. He especially does not think wishes are the main reason for dreams.

CHAPTER 4 DISTORTION IN DREAMS

If I say now that every dream means a wish being fulfilled, and that all dreams are wish-dreams, I know many people will strongly disagree. Critics will say: "It’s not new that some dreams are wishes coming true. People like Radestock, Volkelt, Purkinje, and Griesinger already said that. But to say there are only wish-fulfillment dreams is just wrong and easy to prove wrong. There are lots of dreams with painful or sad content that don’t show any wish being fulfilled. The philosopher Eduard von Hartmann strongly disagrees with the wish-fulfillment idea. In his book, he says: ‘Dreams carry all the troubles of our waking life into sleep, except for the things that make life enjoyable like science and art.’ Even less negative people say that pain and disgust happen more in dreams than happiness (Scholz, p. 33; Volkelt, p. 80, etc.). Two women, Sarah Weed and Florence Hallam, counted dreams and found that 58% of dreams are unpleasant, while only 28.6% are happy."

Besides dreams that bring our sad feelings from life into sleep, there are also anxiety-dreams, which are the worst kind of painful feelings and often wake us up. Kids have these bad dreams a lot (see Debacker on night terrors). But kids also have the clearest examples of wish-fulfillment dreams. Anxiety-dreams seem to prove that not all dreams are wish-fulfillments, and some people even say the idea is ridiculous.

But it’s not hard to answer these strong objections. We only need to look at the real meaning behind the dream, not just what the dream shows on the surface. Let’s compare the obvious dream content and the hidden meaning. It’s true some dreams look very painful. But has anyone tried to understand what these dreams really mean deep down? If not, then the two objections don’t hold up. Because it’s always possible that even scary or painful dreams, when understood properly, turn out to be wish-fulfillments.

In science, sometimes it helps to add a second problem if one is too hard to solve—like cracking two nuts at once instead of one. So, the first problem is: How can painful or scary dreams be wishes coming true? The second problem is: Why do some dreams that seem normal and are wish-fulfillments hide their meaning? Take the well-studied dream of Irma’s injection: it isn’t painful and can be understood as a wish-fulfillment. But why do we have to interpret it at all? Why doesn’t the dream just say what it means? Actually, Irma’s dream doesn’t seem like a wish-fulfillment at first. You probably didn’t get that idea, and I didn’t either until I analyzed it. If we call this strange thing about dreams—that they need explaining—the “distortion of dreams,” then another question comes up: Where does this distortion come from?
