For the nine years being talked about, nothing new or important has come out about how we understand dreams. Most books and articles written since I published my own work don’t even mention or talk about my ideas. The people who study dreams seem to avoid learning anything new, which is pretty typical for scientists. A famous writer once joked that scientists aren’t curious. If science had a way to get back at others, I would ignore the new stuff that’s come out since my book was published. The few reviews in science magazines are so wrong or don’t really get what I said that the only thing I could ask from my critics is to just read my book again—or maybe just read it for the first time!

Doctors who use psychoanalysis have recorded and explained many dreams following my methods. When their work adds to my ideas, I’ve mentioned it in my explanations. At the end of this book, there is a list of important new books on the subject.

One big book about dreams by Sante de Sanctis came out around the same time as mine. Because of that, I didn’t get to read his work first, and he didn’t get to read mine. I have to say, though, his book doesn’t have many good ideas. It’s so weak that you wouldn’t guess the kind of problems I talk about by reading it.

I can only think of two books that really connect with my way of looking at dreams. One is by a young philosopher named H. Swoboda, who tried to apply a biological cycle idea to the mind. He wrote a creative essay where he tried to explain dreams using this idea. But his explanation doesn’t fully show how important dreams really are. He said dreams happen when certain memories match up with these biological cycles. At first, I thought he didn’t believe his own theory anymore, but I was wrong. I’ll talk more about his ideas later, but they didn’t convince me.

I was much happier when I accidentally found a book that agrees completely with my main ideas about dreams. The timing means the author couldn’t have copied me. So, I’m proud to say this is the only clear case where someone else’s ideas match mine exactly. This book, called Phantasien eines Realisten, was published in 1910 by Lynkeus.

ADDENDUM 1914

What I wrote above was from 1909. Since then, things have changed. My work on dreams is no longer ignored. But this new situation means I can’t just keep summarizing old opinions. My book, The Interpretation of Dreams, has caused lots of new arguments and problems. Different authors have explained these in many ways. But I can’t talk about their work until I explain my own ideas more fully. So, I have looked at what’s useful in the new books as I explain my theories in the rest of this book.
