For more information and a detailed discussion about these problems, you can check out Tobowolska's dissertation from Paris, 1900.

Also, compare what Havelock Ellis says in his book The World of Dreams, on page 268.

There is a book called Grundzuge des Systems der Anthropologie from 1850, which Spitta mentions.

Another book, Das Traumleben und seine Deutung from 1868, is also cited by Spitta on page 192.

It's interesting to think about how the Inquisition viewed this problem. In a work called Tractatus de Officio sanctissimae Inquisitionis by Thomas Carena (published in Lyons in 1659), it says: "If someone says heresies in their dreams, the inquisitors should investigate their real life, because what a person thinks about during the day often comes back in their dreams."

Our habits and feelings influence what we do, even if our conscience sometimes warns us. I have my own faults and bad habits; when I'm awake, I try to fight them and often succeed. But in my dreams, I always give in to them or act on their urges without fear or guilt. The images in my dreams are caused by feelings I have, and my will, which is not active during sleep, doesn’t try to stop them.

In a dream, a person shows their true, messy self. Since they don't control their actions, they become a plaything for all the passions that, when awake, our conscience, fear, and shame protect us from.

Dreams mostly reveal our natural, instinctive side. When we dream, we kind of go back to a natural state. The less we have learned or accepted new ideas, the more our natural urges clash with those ideas during dreams.

If two people are really in love, they almost never dream about each other before marriage or during their honeymoon. And if they do dream about love, it's usually about being unfaithful with someone unimportant or unattractive.

So many tight, tense feelings.

A writer named Anatole France says something similar in his book Le Lys Rouge: "What we see at night are the unhappy leftovers we ignored while awake. The dream is often the revenge of things we scorn or the blame of those we have abandoned."

In short, dreams are made up of wandering thoughts that don’t have a clear path. They jump from one memory to another, choosing memories strong enough to get in the way and connect with each other. Sometimes these connections are weak, sometimes stronger, depending on how much the brain is quieted by sleep.

Some recent writers who have studied these ideas include Fere, Ideler, Lasegue, Pichon, Regis Vespa, Giessler, Kazodowsky, Pachantoni, and others.

This is the real cause of madness.

Scholars are not curious.

H. Swoboda wrote Die Perioden des Menschlichen Organismus in 1904.

CHAPTER 2 THE METHOD OF DREAM INTERPRETATION The Analysis of a Sample Dream The quote on the title page of this book shows the tradition I prefer in how I understand dreams.
