We don’t think that the way our senses get excited during sleep is a special cause of dreams, even though some people have shown it might happen. Instead, we explain this excitement by the way memories from the dream come back. The feelings inside our body, like falling or flying, also play a small role in dreams. These feelings are always ready for the dream to use to show what the dream is about.

Dreams happen very fast when we actually notice them, but before that, the process of dreaming takes longer and goes up and down. The reason dreams seem packed with so much stuff in a short time is that they use things already made in our mind. Dreams do get mixed up and changed by memory, but that’s normal because the dream is already changing things from the start. People have argued about whether our mind is asleep or fully working at night. We think both ideas are partly true. Dreams show that our mind is still active and smart, but the thoughts in dreams come from the day, and the mind is partly asleep. So, the mind’s sleep isn’t about breaking connections but about focusing on the wish to sleep.

When we dream, we turn away from the outside world, which helps bring back old memories in the dream. We can’t control our thoughts like when we’re awake, but the mind doesn’t just stop working. Instead, thoughts happen without us trying. Dream thoughts connect loosely, more than we thought, but this is just a replacement for the normal way thoughts connect. Sometimes dreams seem silly or crazy, but they actually make sense by pretending to be absurd. We agree with all the ideas about what dreams do.

Dreams help our mind by letting us safely express strong feelings or bad stuff, like a safety valve. This fits with the idea that dreams fulfill wishes in two ways. The mind plays freely in dreams because the part of our mind that controls things during the day doesn’t interfere. Dreams bring back old ways of thinking and feeling, like a child’s mind, which some experts talked about before us.

We agree with the idea that dreams bring back our old personalities and feelings from the past. For us, the hidden feelings and memories are the main cause of dreams.

Some experts said dreams create fantasies, but we think it’s the other way around. The unconscious fantasies from the day create dream thoughts. We thank those experts for pointing us to the source of dream thoughts, but most of what they said about dreams actually happens in the unconscious during the day. The dream process itself is different and more controlled.

We still believe dreams are connected to mental problems, but now we have better reasons for this idea.

Our theory brings together many different ideas from others. We change some of their points, but we only fully reject a few. Our theory isn’t finished, though. We found a new problem: dream thoughts come from normal mind activity, but some dream thoughts are very strange and abnormal. These strange parts make dreams seem like a low-level mental process, which many experts have said.

Maybe more research will explain this. One important thing to remember is that dreams replace thoughts from our daily life that make perfect sense. These thoughts come from our normal mind. The smart and complicated thinking we do in real life shows up in dreams too. But these thoughts don’t have to happen during sleep. They might start during the day and keep going without us noticing until they’re finished when we fall asleep.
