When we fall asleep, we stop controlling our thoughts on purpose. This makes us think that sleep might also affect how our mind works. Maybe some parts of our mind completely shut down during sleep. We need to figure out if the other parts still work normally or not. 

Dreams might seem strange because our mind isn’t fully active when we sleep. Dreams don’t make much sense; they mix things up, accept impossible ideas, ignore what we know when we’re awake, and show us acting in ways that would seem crazy if we did them while awake. If someone acted or talked like they do in dreams while awake, we’d think they were not thinking clearly. So, it makes sense to say that our mind works much less well in dreams, especially the smarter thinking parts.

Most experts agree with this idea, although some don’t, and those exceptions will be talked about later. Now, I’ll share some quotes from different thinkers who studied dreams and what the mind does during them.

Lemoine says the main thing about dreams is that they don’t make sense. Maury agrees: “There are no dreams that are completely reasonable; they always have some nonsense.” Hegel, mentioned by Spitta, also says dreams don’t follow clear logic.

Dugas says dreams are like mental chaos, where feelings and thoughts run wild without control or purpose. Even Volkelt admits that during sleep, ideas and images get mixed up because the part of us that keeps things in order is relaxed.

Cicero once said we can dream about anything crazy or weird. Fechner compares dreaming to a smart brain working like a fool’s. Radestock says dreams don’t follow any rules and swirl around in a confusing way once the normal control of our waking mind is gone. Hildebrandt points out how dreams make impossible jumps in logic and accept strange things, like dogs reciting poems or rocks floating on water, without surprise. Sometimes dreams are so silly that they wake us up. Binz says most dreams are ridiculous, mixing unrelated people and things, changing rapidly like a kaleidoscope until we wake up wondering if we still think clearly.

Maury compares the images in dreams to random movements in people with certain brain disorders. He thinks dreams show a decline in our ability to think and reason properly.
