Acknowledgments

I couldn’t have made this book without a lot of help from others. First, I HAVE RELIED HEAVILY on my wife, Kristy. She has been super important during the whole process.

She did everything you can think of when writing a book: wife, friend, fan, critic, editor, researcher, and even therapist. I’m not joking when I say this book wouldn’t be the same without her. It might not even exist. Like everything in our life, we did it together.

Next, I want to thank my family. They didn’t just support me with this book but always believed in me no matter what I was working on. My parents, grandparents, and siblings have helped me for many years. I especially want my mom and dad to know that I love them. It feels amazing to know your parents are your biggest fans.

I also want to thank my assistant, Lyndsey Nuckols. She does way more than you’d expect for a small business. Luckily, she’s super talented, even though my management skills aren’t the best. Some parts of this book are as much hers as they are mine. I’m really grateful for her help.

When it comes to the book’s ideas and writing, I have a long list of people to thank. First, I learned a lot from Leo Babauta, Charles Duhigg, Nir Eyal, and BJ Fogg. They have all changed how I think about habits. You can find their ideas throughout this book. If you liked this book, you should check out their work too.

During writing, many great editors helped me. Thanks to Peter Guzzardi for guiding me early on and giving me a push when I needed it. Blake Atwood and Robin Dellabough helped turn my messy first drafts into something clear and easy to read. And Anne Barngrover added style and class to my writing.

Finally, thanks to all the people who read early versions of the book, including Bruce Ammons, Darcey Ansell, Tim Ballard, Vishal Bhardwaj, Charlotte Blank, Jerome Burt, Sim Campbell, Al Carlos, Nicky Case, Julie Chang, Jason Collins, Debra Croy, Roger Dooley, Tiago Forte, and Matt Gartland.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
