When a habit meets a need, you start wanting to do it again. Over time, you expect that checking social media will make you feel loved or that watching YouTube will help you forget your worries. Habits feel good when we link them to happy feelings, and we can use this to help ourselves instead of hurting ourselves.

HOW TO REPROGRAM YOUR BRAIN TO ENJOY HARD HABITS  
You can make hard habits easier to like if you connect them with something positive. Sometimes, all it takes is a small change in how you think. For example, we usually say things we “have to” do every day. You have to wake up early for work. You have to make another sales call. You have to cook dinner for your family.

Now, think about changing just one word: Instead of “have to,” say “get to.”

You get to wake up early for work. You get to make another sales call. You get to cook dinner for your family. Just by changing one word, you change how you see these things. They stop feeling like chores and become chances to do something good.

The important thing is both ideas are true. You do have to do these things, but you also get to do them. You can choose which way to think.

I once heard about a man who uses a wheelchair. When asked if it was hard being stuck, he said, “I’m not stuck in my wheelchair—I’m free because of it. Without it, I’d be stuck in bed and never leave my house.” Changing how he saw things made a huge difference in his life.

Changing how you think about your habits to focus on the good parts instead of the bad is a quick and easy way to train your mind and make habits more appealing.

Exercise. Many people think exercise is hard and tiring. But you can also see it as a way to get stronger and better. Instead of saying “I need to run in the morning,” say “It’s time to build endurance and get faster.”  
Finance. Saving money often feels like giving things up. But you can think of it as gaining freedom. When you spend less than you earn, you have more money later. Saving this month means you can buy more next month.

Meditation. Anyone who has tried meditation for more than three seconds...
