Pain hurts, and pain teaches us lessons. When something bad happens and it really hurts, we fix it. But if it doesn’t hurt much, we often ignore it. The bigger and quicker the problem, the faster we learn from it. For example, a plumber works well because a bad review can hurt their business. Restaurants make good food because they don’t want customers to leave. Surgeons are very careful because making a mistake can be very dangerous. When the consequences are serious, people learn fast.

The quicker the pain happens, the less likely people are to do something bad. If you want to stop bad habits, adding an immediate cost or punishment helps a lot.

We keep doing bad habits because they help us somehow, so they’re hard to stop. The best way to fix this is to make the punishment happen right away. There can’t be a delay between the bad action and the consequence.

When a consequence happens right after the action, people start to change. For example, customers pay bills on time if they get charged a late fee.

Students go to class when their attendance affects their grades. We do a lot to avoid feeling pain right now.

But there is a limit. If you want to use punishment to change behavior, the punishment has to be strong enough to beat the habit. To stop procrastinating, the cost of waiting must be worse than doing the work. To be healthy, the cost of being lazy must be worse than exercising. Fines for smoking or not recycling add a cost to those actions. Behavior only changes if the punishment really hurts and is always applied.

Usually, the more immediate and clear the consequence is, the more it affects what a person does. If consequences are far away, unclear, or vague, they don’t change behavior much.

Luckily, there is an easy way to add quick consequences to bad habits: make a habit contract.

THE HABIT CONTRACT The first seat belt law was passed in New York on December 1, 1984. Back then, only 14% of people in the U.S. wore seat belts regularly—but that was about to change.

Within five years, over half the country had seat belt laws. Today, wearing a
