When someone is addicted, they might go to a clinic to get clean. The clinic doesn’t have the things around that make them want to use drugs. But when they go back home, all those old things that made them want drugs are still there. That’s why, unlike the Vietnam study, usually 90 percent of heroin users start using again after rehab.

The Vietnam studies went against what a lot of people believe about bad habits. Many think that if you’re overweight, smoke, or addicted, it’s because you don’t have self-control or that you’re a bad person. People have been told all their lives that just having discipline will fix everything.

But recent research shows something different. Scientists found that people who seem to have great self-control aren’t really that different from others. Instead, these “disciplined” people organize their lives so they don’t have to use lots of willpower. They avoid situations that tempt them.

The people who have the best self-control usually don’t have to use it much. It’s easier to be strong when you don’t face temptations often. So, having grit and willpower is important, but the best way to get better at this is not just by trying harder. It’s by making your environment more disciplined.

This idea makes more sense when you know how habits work in the brain. Once a habit is formed, it gets triggered whenever you see the right cues. For example, Patty Olwell, a therapist from Texas, used to smoke when she rode horses with a friend. She quit smoking and stopped riding for years. But when she rode a horse again after a long time, she suddenly wanted a cigarette. The habit was still there; she just hadn’t been around the triggers.

Once a habit is set, the urge comes back whenever you see the usual triggers. This is why some ways to change behavior don’t work. For example, shaming people who are overweight can make them stressed, so they might eat more to feel better. Showing scary pictures to smokers can make them anxious, which can make them want to smoke more. If you’re not careful, trying to stop a habit can actually make it worse.

Bad habits feed themselves—they keep going and growing. They create feelings that make you want to do the habit again and again.
