Thinking about your habits can help you see things more clearly. Doing small things every day is powerful because they add up over time. But if you worry too much about every little choice, it’s like looking at yourself in a mirror super close. You notice every tiny flaw and forget about the big picture. That’s too much focus.

On the other hand, never checking your habits is like never looking in a mirror at all. You don’t see easy-to-fix problems, like a stain on your shirt or food stuck in your teeth. That’s too little focus. Taking time now and then to think about your habits is like looking in a mirror from a normal distance. You can see what really matters and what you should change without obsessing over every small thing. It’s better to look at the whole mountain range than just one little peak or valley.

Also, thinking about your habits is a good time to think about your identity—who you believe you are.

At first, doing a habit over and over helps you believe you are the kind of person who does that thing. But sometimes, the beliefs you have about yourself can stop you from growing. When your identity works against you, it creates a kind of pride that makes you ignore your weaknesses. This can hold you back from getting better. That’s one of the downsides of building habits.

The stronger you feel about an idea being part of who you are, the more you will defend it and ignore other ideas. You see this in many places. Like a teacher who won’t try new ways to teach, or a boss who insists on doing things only his way. Or a doctor who ignores advice from younger coworkers. Even a band that makes a great first album but then can’t improve. The more you stick to one identity, the harder it is to grow beyond it.

One way to fix this is to not let any one part of your identity take over who you are. Like investor Paul Graham says, “keep your identity small.” If one belief or role defines you too much, it’s harder to change when life throws challenges at you. For example, if you’re known as the team’s point guard or the top partner at work, losing that part of your life can feel like losing yourself. Or if you’re a vegan and then get sick and have to change your diet, it can cause an identity crisis. When you hold on too tightly to one identity, you become fragile.

If you lose that one thing, you might feel like you lose yourself too.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
