It’s unlikely he would ever make it to the Olympics as a swimmer. Since 1976, the average height of Olympic gold medalists in the men’s 1,500-meter run is five feet, ten inches. But for the men’s 100-meter freestyle swim, the average height is six feet, four inches. Swimmers are usually tall and have long backs and arms, which help them move through the water better.

El Guerrouj would be at a big disadvantage even before he got in the pool.

The secret to having a better chance of success is to pick the right area to compete in. This is true for changing habits just like it is for sports and business. Habits are easier to do and more fun to keep when they fit your natural talents and interests. Like Michael Phelps in swimming or Hicham El Guerrouj in running, you want to play a game where the chances are in your favor.

To use this idea, you have to accept that people are born with different abilities. Some people don’t like to talk about this. At first, your genes seem fixed, and it’s no fun to think about things you can’t control. Also, words like biological determinism make it sound like some people are meant to succeed and others are meant to fail. But that’s a narrow way to think about how genes affect behavior.

The power of genes is also their weakness. Genes can’t be easily changed, so they give a big advantage in good situations and a big disadvantage in bad ones. If you want to dunk a basketball, being seven feet tall helps a lot. But if you want to do gymnastics, being seven feet tall makes it harder. Our environment decides how useful our genes and talents are. When the environment changes, the qualities needed for success change too.

This is true for mental skills as well as physical ones.

I’m smart when it comes to habits and human behavior, but not so much with knitting, rocket science, or playing guitar. How good you are depends a lot on the situation.

People who are the best at something are not just well trained, they are also naturally made for that thing. That’s why if you want to be really great, choosing the right thing to focus on is super important.

In short: genes don’t decide your future. They show where you have chances to do well. As doctor Gabor Mate says, “Genes can predispose, but they don’t predetermine.” The areas where your genes help you are the areas where habits feel better and are easier to keep. The key is to put your effort into things that both excite you and fit your natural skills, so your goals match what you’re good at.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
