CHAPTER 11

In the end, they didn’t get much out of their hard work. This story comes from page 29 of Art & Fear by David Bayles and Ted Orland. In an email with Orland on October 18, 2016, he explained where the story came from. 

He said the “ceramics story” in Art & Fear is true, though it’s been changed a bit to make it more interesting. The real story started with photographer Jerry Uelsmann, who used it to encourage his Beginning Photography students at the University of Florida. In Art & Fear, the story was changed to be about ceramics instead of photography. Orland said they did this because both he and co-author David Bayles are photographers, and they wanted to include different kinds of art in the book. What’s cool is that the lesson from the story works for any kind of art, and even outside of art too.

Orland also said in the email that they were okay with me using the ceramics part in my book. So, I decided to share a version that mixes their ceramics story with facts from Uelsmann’s original photography students.

David Bayles and Ted Orland wrote Art & Fear: Observations on the Perils (and Rewards) of Artmaking (Santa Cruz, CA: Image Continuum Press, 1993), page 29.

As Voltaire once said: Voltaire, La Bégueule. Conte Moral (1772).

Long-term potentiation was discovered by Terje Lømo in 1966. He found out that when the brain sends the same signals over and over, it makes it easier for those signals to be sent in the future, and the effect lasts for a long time.

“Neurons that fire together wire together” is a quote from Donald O. Hebb’s book, The Organization of Behavior: A Neuropsychological Theory (New York: Wiley, 1949).

Musicians have bigger cerebellums, which is a part of the brain, according to S. Hutchinson’s study, “Cerebellar Volume of Musicians,” published in Cerebral Cortex in 2003.

Mathematicians, on the other hand, have more gray matter in parts of their brains, based on A. Verma’s study from 2008 called “Increased Gray Matter Density in the Parietal Cortex of Mathematicians.”

Scientists studied the brains of London taxi drivers and found changes in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that helps with navigation. This was shown in research by Eleanor A. Maguire and others in 2000, 2006, and 2011.

George Henry Lewes said in 1860 that “the actions become so automatic,” meaning that when you do something a lot, it feels natural and you don’t even have to think about it.

Repetition is a kind of change. Brian Eno also says this in his creative card set called Oblique Strategies, which is pretty cool.

Automaticity means being able to do something without thinking about it, according to Phillippa Lally and her team in their 2009 study on how habits form.

Habits form based on how often you do something, not how much time passes, which Hermann Ebbinghaus first explained in his 1885 book about memory and learning curves.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
