CHAPTER 6 Anne Thorndike: Anne N. Thorndike and others did a study called “A 2-Phase Labeling and Choice Architecture Intervention to Improve Healthy Food and Beverage Choices,” published in the American Journal of Public Health in 2012.

People don’t always choose food because of what it is. Many studies show that just seeing food can make us feel hungry, even if we’re not really hungry.

One researcher said that how we eat is mostly because of automatic reactions to things around us, like food being nearby. For more info, see studies by D. A. Cohen and S. H. Babey (2012), and Andrew J. Hill and others (1984).

Behavior depends on the person and their surroundings. Kurt Lewin explained this idea in his book Principles of Topological Psychology in 1936.

Impulse buying happens when people buy things suddenly without planning. Hawkins Stern wrote about this in 1962.

Almost half of Coca-Cola’s sales come from impulse buying, according to Michael Moss in a 2013 New York Times article.

People drink Bud Light and other foods more when they see them often. More exposure makes buying and eating those foods more likely. This was shown in a 2014 study by T. Burgoine and others.

The human body has around eleven million sensory receptors that help us sense the world, as Timothy D. Wilson explained in 2004.

About half of our brain’s energy is used for vision, according to B. R. Sheth and others in 1996.

In 1973, Donella Meadows heard a story about how people’s energy use was easier to understand when it was obvious and simple to track.

Stickers placed in bathrooms helped reduce cleaning costs by about 8 percent, sometimes between 5 and 10 percent per year. Blake Evans-Pritchard wrote about this in 2013.

Sleeping was the only thing people did in their bedrooms in one study. To help people with insomnia, researchers told them to only lie in bed when tired and to leave if they couldn’t sleep. This helped people learn to fall asleep faster because their brains linked the bed with sleeping, not other activities. Charles M. Morin and Gregory Ciotti explain this in their work.

It’s easier to change habits when you are in a new place. A 2011 report showed that big life changes can help people change behavior.

Research has found that changing your environment makes it easier to change habits. For example, students watch less TV when they move to a new school. This is because you don’t have old reminders around you. About 36 percent of people who changed behavior did so after moving to a new place, according to studies by Wendy Wood, Melissa Guerrero-Witt, and others.
