Action is the kind of behavior that actually leads to a result.

If I come up with twenty ideas for articles I want to write, that’s motion. But if I actually sit down and write an article, that’s action. If I look for a better diet plan and read some books about it, that’s motion. But if I eat a healthy meal, that’s action.

Sometimes motion helps, but it never gives you a result by itself. It doesn’t matter how many times you talk to a personal trainer, that motion won’t get you fit. Only the action of working out will get you the result you want.

So if motion doesn’t get results, why do we do it? Sometimes it’s because we need to plan or learn more. But most of the time, we do it because motion makes us feel like we’re making progress without risking failure. Most of us are really good at avoiding criticism. It doesn’t feel good to fail or be judged, so we avoid situations where that might happen. That’s the main reason you stick to motion instead of taking action: you want to delay failing.

It’s easy to be in motion and trick yourself into thinking you’re still making progress. You might think, “I’m talking to four possible clients right now. This is good. We’re moving forward.” Or, “I came up with some ideas for my book. It’s coming together.” Motion makes you feel like you’re doing something. But really, you’re just getting ready to do something. When planning turns into a way to avoid actually doing the work, you need to change. You don’t want to just plan. You want to practice.

If you want to get really good at a habit, the key is to start by repeating it, not doing it perfectly.

You don’t need to plan every detail of a new habit. You just need to practice it. This is the first lesson of the 3rd Law: you just need to get your reps in.

HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO FORM A NEW HABIT?

Forming a habit means a behavior becomes more automatic the more you repeat it. The more you do something, the more your brain changes to make it easier.

Scientists call this long-term potentiation. It means the connections between brain cells get stronger when you do something a lot.

Each time you repeat an action, the signals between brain cells get better and the connections tighten. This idea was first explained by neuropsychologist Donald Hebb in 1949.
