At first, everyone agreed on the right answer. After a few rounds, the participants were given a test that seemed just as easy, but the actors in the room purposely picked the wrong answer. For example, they might say “A” when the lines were clearly different.

The person who didn’t know this was a trick got confused right away. Their eyes would get wide. They’d laugh nervously. They’d look at what the other people were doing. They’d get more and more upset as everyone kept giving the wrong answer. Soon, the person started to doubt what they saw. Finally, they gave the answer they knew was wrong.

Asch did this experiment many times in different ways. He found that the more actors there were, the more the person would go along with them. If there was only one actor, the person didn’t change their answer. They just thought the actor was weird.

With two actors, it still didn’t change much.

But when there were three, four, or up to eight actors, the person began to question themselves more. By the end, almost 75% of people said the wrong answer just to match the group.

When we don’t know what to do, we look at what others are doing. We always watch around us and think, “What are they doing?” We check reviews on Amazon or Yelp or TripAdvisor because we want to copy the best ways to buy, eat, or travel. Usually, this is a smart idea. The numbers prove it.

But it can also be a problem.

The usual way the group acts can be stronger than what a person really wants to do. For example, one study showed that if a chimp learns a better way to crack nuts in one group, but then joins a new group that uses a worse way, it will stop using the better way just to fit in.

Humans are the same. There is a lot of pressure inside us to follow what the group does. Being accepted is often more important than winning an argument, looking smart, or finding the truth. Most days, we’d rather be wrong with the group than right alone.

Our minds want to get along with others. That’s normal for us. You can choose to ignore the group or stop caring what others think, but it takes effort.

Going against your culture or group is hard and needs extra work.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
