HOW TO DO MORE WITH LESS WORK

Imagine you are holding a garden hose that is bent in the middle. Some water can flow through, but not much. If you want more water to come out, you have two choices. The first is to turn the valve harder and force more water out. The second is to just straighten the hose and let water flow easily.

Trying to force yourself to stay motivated for a hard habit is like forcing water through a bent hose. You can do it, but it takes a lot of effort and makes your life more stressful. Instead, making your habits simple and easy is like straightening the hose. You reduce the problems instead of fighting them.

One good way to make habits easier is to change your environment. In Chapter 6, we talked about making reminders clearer, but you can also set up your space to make actions easier. For example, pick a place for your new habit that fits into your daily routine. Habits are easier to keep when they fit with how you live. You’ll probably go to the gym if it’s on your way to work because it doesn’t add extra effort. But if the gym is out of your way, even a little, now you have to go “out of your way” to get there.

It’s even better to reduce problems in your home or office. Too often, we try to start habits in places that make it hard. We try to eat healthy while out with friends. We try to write a book in a noisy house. We try to focus while using a phone full of distractions. It doesn’t have to be like this. We can remove the things that make habits hard. This is what electronics companies in Japan started doing in the 1970s.

In an article from the New Yorker called “Better All the Time,” James Suroweicki says: “Japanese companies focused on ‘lean production,’ always trying to remove waste from how they worked. They even redesigned workspaces so workers didn’t waste time reaching for tools. Because of this, Japanese factories were more efficient, and their products were more reliable than American ones. In 1974, American color TVs needed service calls five times more than Japanese TVs. By 1979, American workers took three times longer to put their TVs together.”
