Thankfully, by the next morning, I was breathing better, so the doctors felt okay about waking me up from the coma. When I finally woke up, I found out I couldn’t smell anything. A nurse asked me to blow my nose and then smell an apple juice box as a test. My smell came back, but surprisingly, blowing my nose pushed air through the broken bones around my eye and made my left eye stick out. My eyeball was bulging out, held just by my eyelid and the nerve connecting it to my brain.

The eye doctor said my eye would slowly move back as the air escaped, but no one knew how long it would take. I had surgery scheduled a week later to give my face more time to heal.

I looked like I had been in a bad fight, but the doctors said I could go home. I left the hospital with a broken nose, several broken bones in my face, and a bulging left eye.

The next few months were really tough. It felt like my life was stuck. I had double vision for weeks, which meant I couldn’t see things clearly. After more than a month, my eye finally went back to normal.

Because of seizures and vision problems, it took me eight months before I could drive again. In physical therapy, I practiced simple things like walking straight. I was determined to stay positive, but sometimes I felt sad and overwhelmed.

I realized how far I had to go when I went back to baseball a year later. Baseball had always been a big part of my life.

My dad played minor league baseball for the St. Louis Cardinals, and I dreamed of playing professionally too. After months of recovery, all I wanted was to play baseball again.

But coming back wasn’t easy. When the season started, I was the only junior cut from the varsity baseball team. They put me on the junior varsity team with the younger sophomores. I had played since I was four, so getting cut felt embarrassing. I remember sitting in my car crying, flipping through the radio trying to find a song to make me feel better.

After a year of doubting myself, I made the varsity team as a senior, but I hardly played. In total, I only played eleven innings in high school varsity baseball, which is barely one full game.

Even though my high school baseball career wasn’t great, I still believed I could be a good player. I knew if I wanted things to get better, I had to make it happen myself. The turning point came two years after my...
