For example, things placed at eye level usually get bought more than stuff near the floor. That’s why stores put expensive brands where you can easily see and reach them, because they make more money. Cheaper products are often hidden in harder-to-reach spots. The same goes for end caps, which are the shelves at the end of aisles. End caps make a lot of money for stores because lots of people walk by them. For example, 45% of Coca-Cola sales come from those end-of-aisle racks.

The easier it is to find something, the more likely you are to buy or use it. People drink Bud Light because it’s in every bar, and they go to Starbucks because it’s on every corner. We like to think we choose what we want, like picking water over soda because we want to be healthy. But actually, many of our choices happen because the easiest or most obvious option is right in front of us.

Every living thing has its own way of sensing the world. Eagles can see really far. Snakes “taste the air” with their tongues to smell. Sharks can feel tiny electric signals and movements in the water from nearby fish. Even bacteria have tiny sensors to detect harmful chemicals around them.

Humans sense the world through sight, sound, smell, touch, and taste, thanks to our nervous system. We also have other ways to sense things, some we notice and some we don’t. For example, you might feel it getting colder before a storm, notice a stomachache pain, or lose balance on rocky ground. Your body also senses things inside you, like how much salt is in your blood or if you’re thirsty.

The strongest human sense is vision. Out of about eleven million sensory receptors in the body, around ten million are for sight. Some experts say half of your brain is used just for seeing. Since we rely on vision more than any other sense, what we see can strongly affect what we do. Even a small change in what you see can change your behavior a lot. So, it’s really important to live and work in places that show helpful signs and don’t have distracting or bad ones.

Luckily, there’s good news. You don’t have to be controlled by these things.
