Studying. I will study Spanish for twenty minutes at 6 p.m. in my bedroom.

Exercise. I will exercise for one hour at 5 p.m. in my local gym.

Marriage. I will make my partner a cup of tea at 8 a.m. in the kitchen.

If you don’t know when to start a new habit, try starting on the first day of the week, month, or year. People usually feel more hopeful then. When you feel hope, you want to take action. Starting fresh can make you feel motivated.

There’s another good thing about planning exactly what you want to do and when. It helps you say no to things that distract you or stop you from reaching your goal. We often say yes to little requests because we aren’t clear about what we really need to do. When your goals are unclear, it’s easy to make excuses and never do what’s really important.

Give your habits a time and place to happen. Make it so clear that after doing it enough times, you feel like doing it at that time without even thinking why. As writer Jason Zweig said, “You won’t just work out without thinking, but like a dog that salivates at a bell, you might start feeling antsy around the time you usually work out.” There are many ways to use this idea in your life and work.

My favorite way is one I learned from Stanford professor BJ Fogg. It’s called habit stacking.

HABIT STACKING: A SIMPLE PLAN TO CHANGE YOUR HABITS

The French philosopher Denis Diderot was poor most of his life, but things changed in 1765.

His daughter was about to get married, and he didn’t have money to pay for the wedding. Even though he was poor, Diderot was famous for co-writing the Encyclopédie, a big encyclopedia of that time. When Catherine the Great, the Empress of Russia, heard about his money problems, she felt sorry for him. She loved books and really liked his encyclopedia. She offered to buy Diderot’s personal library for £1,000 — that’s more than $150,000 today. Suddenly, Diderot had money to spend. With this money, he not only paid for the wedding but also...

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
