Every workday and every Sunday morning for the rest of the quarter, Harris had to follow a dress code. Dressing up meant no jeans, no t-shirts, no hoodies, and no shorts. If he missed even one day of logging his food, he had to give his trainer Joey $200 to spend however he wanted. At the bottom of the page, Harris, his wife, and his trainer all signed the contract.

At first, I thought the contract was way too formal and not needed, especially the signatures. But Harris explained that signing it showed he was serious. "Whenever I skip this part," he said, "I start slacking off really fast." Three months later, after meeting his goals for the first quarter, Harris made his goals harder.

The penalties got worse, too. If he missed his carb and protein goals, he had to pay his trainer $100. If he forgot to weigh himself, he had to give his wife $500 to spend however she wanted. The worst was if he forgot to do sprints — he had to dress up for work every day and wear an Alabama hat for the rest of the quarter. That’s a big deal because Alabama is the rival of his favorite team, Auburn.

This plan worked. With his wife and trainer keeping him on track and the contract making things clear, Harris lost the weight. To stop bad habits, it helps to make them hurt right away. Making a habit contract is an easy way to do that.

Even if you don’t want a full contract, having someone to hold you accountable helps a lot. Comedian Margaret Cho writes a joke or song every day with a friend who does the same. They keep each other honest. When someone’s watching, you’re less likely to put things off or quit because there’s a cost. If you don’t follow through, they might think you’re lazy or unreliable. So you’re not just breaking promises to yourself, but to others too.

You can even automate this idea. Thomas Frank, a businessman in Boulder, Colorado, wakes up at 5:55 a.m. If he doesn’t, a tweet goes out automatically at 6:10 a.m. saying, “It’s 6:10 and I’m not up because I’m lazy! Reply to this for $5 via PayPal (limit 5), assuming my alarm didn’t break.” We want to look our best to others. We fix our hair, brush our teeth, and dress nicely because we want people to like us. We want good grades, to go to great schools, and to impress employers, friends, and family. We care about what others think because it helps if people like us. That’s exactly why having an accountability partner or  
 
my name is sandeep gautam
