CHAPTER 8

Niko Tinbergen did a bunch of experiments to learn about animal behavior.

For example, a goose will try to grab any round object nearby.

Today’s food companies use tricks to make their products more appealing.

Almost every snack you buy in a bag is designed to taste super good.

French fries are a perfect mix of flavors that make people want more.

Food scientists use these tricks to find the “bliss point,” which means the perfect taste that makes you crave food.

One expert said, “We’ve gotten too good at pushing our own buttons” when it comes to food cravings.

Dopamine is really important for feeling pleasure.

In 1954, two scientists put an electrode into a rat’s brain by accident and found it was near a part called the nucleus accumbens, or NAcc, which makes you feel happy.

This part of the brain helps you feel joy when you eat chocolate cake, listen to your favorite song, or watch your team win.

But too much pleasure can be dangerous.

The scientists made the NAcc in rats super active by sending small electric currents.

The rats stopped eating, drinking, and even stopped trying to find mates.

They just sat in their cages, stuck in a happy but unhealthy state.

In a few days, all the rats died because they didn’t take care of themselves.

Scientists learned that when the brain’s pleasure system is overloaded, it can stop you from doing normal things.

Other studies showed that without desire or motivation, animals won’t act or take care of themselves.

Sometimes, animals even develop cravings so strong they can’t resist.

People who play slot machines also get caught in a similar loop of wanting and craving.

Habits happen because of a dopamine-driven feedback loop in the brain.

Dopamine plays a big role in many brain activities.

Researchers later found that other brain chemicals like endorphins and opioids also help make us feel pleasure.

Dopamine isn’t just released when you feel pleasure.

Whenever dopamine goes up, your motivation goes up too.

Dopamine pushes you to seek out new things, explore, and take action.

Scientists can tell when an animal’s “seeking system” is active because it starts exploring and sniffing around.

The brain’s reward system lights up when you want something.

In fact, the entire nucleus accumbens is active when you feel desire.

Some people even hack their exercise bikes to make workouts more fun, like watching Netflix while cycling.

There are ideas about “eliminating obesity one Netflix binge at a time.”

TV shows see certain nights as good chances to get lots of viewers.

In psychology, it’s known that more likely behaviors can encourage less likely ones.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
