Players need to do their best every single night. In the summer of 1986, a coach named Riley made a plan to help them do just that. He called it the Career Best Effort program, or CBE.

“When players join the Lakers,” Riley said, “we check their basketball stats all the way back to high school. I call this Taking Their Number. We find out what a player can really do and use that to make a plan for the team. We expect the player to keep up and then get better than their averages.” After finding out how good a player usually is, Riley added something important. He told each player to try to improve by at least 1 percent during the season. If they did, that was called a Career Best Effort, or CBE. Just like the British Cycling team we talked about before, the Lakers wanted players to get a little better every day.

Riley said CBE wasn’t just about points or stats. It was about trying your best in your mind, heart, and body. Players got credit for things like letting an opponent run into them to get a foul called, diving for loose balls, going after rebounds even if it was hard to get them, helping a teammate when they were struggling, and other small but important actions. For example, Magic Johnson, the Lakers’ star at the time, might have 11 points, 8 rebounds, 12 assists, 2 steals, and 5 turnovers in a game.

Magic also got credit for an “unsung hero” move by diving after a loose ball (+1).

He played 33 minutes in this game.

To get Magic’s CBE number, you add the positive numbers (11 + 8 + 12 + 2 + 1 = 34), subtract the turnovers (34 – 5 = 29), then divide by the minutes played (29 ÷ 33 = 0.879). So, Magic’s CBE number is 879. This number was calculated for every game, and players tried to improve their average CBE by 1 percent during the season. Riley compared each player’s CBE to their past games and to other players in the league. He said, “We rank team members alongside league opponents who play the same position and have similar roles.” Sportswriter Jackie MacMullan said, “Riley showed the top players in the league in bold letters on the blackboard every week and tracked them closely.”
