Some people washed their hands quickly. Others only washed one hand. Many people forgot to wash their hands before making food. Everyone said handwashing was important, but not many did it regularly. The problem wasn’t knowing it was important. The problem was doing it every time.

Then Luby and his team worked with Procter & Gamble to give the neighborhood Safeguard soap. Compared to regular soap, Safeguard made washing hands more fun.

“In Pakistan, Safeguard was a fancy soap,” Luby said. “People in the study said they really liked it.” The soap made lots of foam, and people could cover their hands with suds. It also smelled nice.

Right away, handwashing became a little more enjoyable.

“I think the goal of promoting handwashing isn’t just to change behavior but to make it a habit,” Luby said. “It’s easier for people to use something that feels good, like toothpaste with mint, than something that doesn’t feel nice, like flossing. Procter & Gamble’s marketing team wanted to make handwashing a positive experience.” After a few months, the researchers saw kids in the neighborhood get healthier. Diarrhea dropped by 52 percent; pneumonia by 48 percent; and impetigo, a skin infection, by 35 percent.

The long-term results were even better. “We visited some homes in Karachi six years later,” Luby said. “More than 95 percent of the homes who got free soap and were encouraged to wash hands still had soap and water ready when we came. We hadn’t given them soap for over five years, but they had made handwashing a habit.” This showed the last Law of Behavior Change: make it satisfying.

We do things more often when they feel good.

This makes sense. Feeling good—even small things like using soap that smells nice and makes foam—tells the brain: “This is nice. Do it again.” Pleasure helps your brain remember and repeat actions.

Think about chewing gum. Gum had been sold in the 1800s, but it didn’t become a worldwide habit until Wrigley started selling it in 1891. Early gum was chewy but didn’t taste good. Wrigley changed this by adding flavors like Spearmint and Juicy Fruit, making gum tasty and fun. Then they went further and began promoting chewing gum as a...
