I like to call this idea "addition by subtraction." Japanese companies looked for every part of the making process that was slowing things down and got rid of it. By cutting out wasted work, they gained more customers and made more money. In the same way, when we remove things that waste our time and energy, we can get more done with less effort. This is one reason why cleaning up can feel so good: we are moving forward while also making our surroundings less stressful.

If you look at the most popular products, you’ll see that they make life easier by removing little annoyances. Meal delivery services make grocery shopping easier. Dating apps make meeting new people easier. Ride-sharing apps make traveling around town easier. Text messaging makes sending messages easier than mailing letters.

Just like a Japanese TV company redesigns their workspace to cut down wasted movement, successful companies make their products simpler and faster to use. They make forms shorter, reduce the number of clicks to sign up, and give easy instructions or fewer options.

When voice-activated speakers like Google Home, Amazon Echo, and Apple HomePod came out, I asked a friend why he liked his. He said it was easier to just say "Play some country music" than to take out his phone, open the music app, and pick a playlist. A few years earlier, having unlimited music in your pocket was already super easy compared to driving to a store to buy a CD. Business is always about finding easier ways to do the same thing.

Governments use this idea too. When the British government wanted more people to pay taxes, they stopped sending people to a page where they had to download the tax form. Instead, they linked directly to the form. This small change made more people respond—going from 19.2% to 23.4%. For a country like the UK, that means millions more dollars in taxes.

The main point is to make doing the right thing as easy as possible. Building better habits is mostly about making good habits easier and bad habits harder.
