So, when we look at the plants and animals living now in the middle parts of the New World (like America) and the Old World (like Europe and Asia), we find very few that are exactly the same. Although Asa Gray recently showed that more plants are alike than people thought before, many living things are different. Some scientists call these differences geographical races, while others say they are different species. There are also many very similar but separate species everywhere.

Just like on land, in the ocean, animals slowly moved south a long time ago. During the Pliocene period or even earlier, sea creatures lived almost the same along the Polar Circle’s continuous coasts. This helps explain why many similar sea animals now live in places far apart. For example, we see related species on both the east and west coasts of temperate North America. We also find many close crustacean relatives, some fish, and other sea creatures in the Mediterranean Sea and the seas near Japan, even though these places are now separated by land and a big part of the ocean near the equator.

These relationships between sea creatures living far apart, and between animals from the past and present in North America and Europe, don’t make sense if we think they were just created separately. We can’t say they were made the same just because their environments look alike. For example, some parts of South America and southern continents of the Old World look very similar physically but have completely different animals.

Now, back to the Ice Age. I believe Forbes’s idea can be applied more widely. In Europe, there is clear proof of a cold period from western Britain to the Ural Mountains and down to the Pyrenees. From frozen animals and mountain plants, we think Siberia was cold too. Along the Himalayas, glaciers left marks far apart, and Dr. Hooker saw corn growing on old glacier debris in Sikkim. South of the equator, New Zealand shows signs of past glaciers, and similar plants on distant mountains tell the same story. If one report is true, there is also proof of glaciers in southeastern Australia.

Looking at America, in the northern half, pieces of rock carried by ice have been found as far south as latitude 36-37 degrees on the east side, and as far south as latitude 46 degrees on the Pacific coast, where the climate is very different now. Large boulders moved by glaciers have also been found in the Rocky Mountains. In the mountain range of Equatorial South America, glaciers once went much lower than they do today. In central Chile, I was surprised by a huge pile of broken rock about 800 feet tall crossing a valley in the Andes. I now believe this was a giant glacier pile left far below where glaciers exist today. Further south on both sides of the continent, from latitude 41 degrees to the very bottom, there is very clear proof of glaciers from long ago, shown by huge rocks moved far from where they started.
