I explained why we don’t usually see many links between different species today, even in places where you’d expect to find them, like big areas with different kinds of environments. I tried to show that a species’ survival depends more on other living things around it than on the climate. So, the main things that affect life don’t change slowly like temperature or moisture do. I also tried to show that the “in-between” types, which exist in smaller numbers, usually get outcompeted and disappear over time as species improve and change.

The biggest reason we don’t see lots of these in-between links in nature now is because natural selection causes new types to replace and wipe out their ancestors. But since this replacement has happened so much, there must have been a huge number of in-between forms in the past. So why don’t we find these in-between forms in every rock layer? Geology doesn’t show a perfect chain of these links, and that’s a big problem for my theory. I think the reason is that the fossil record we have is very incomplete.

First, remember what kind of in-between forms my theory says should have existed. It’s easy to imagine a smooth line of forms between two species, but this isn’t true. Instead, we should look for forms intermediate between each species and their common ancestor, which we don’t know. The ancestor usually looked different from all the species that came from it.

For example, fantail and pouter pigeons both come from the rock-pigeon. If we had all the in-between types, we’d see a clear line from each of these breeds back to the rock-pigeon. But we wouldn’t find pigeons that are halfway between fantail and pouter, like one with a slightly bigger tail and a slightly bigger crop (the two main features they have).

These two pigeon breeds have changed so much that if we didn’t know their history, we couldn’t tell just by looking if they came from the rock-pigeon or a different but related species.

The same goes for wild animals. If you compare very different species, like horses and tapirs, there’s no reason to think there were animals directly in-between them. Instead, each species came from a common ancestor that was different from both of them. This ancestor probably looked a bit like both the horse and the tapir but also had some differences. Because of this, we wouldn’t be able to recognize the ancestor by just comparing it to the species that came from it unless we had a nearly complete chain of all the in-between forms.

My theory allows for the possibility that one living species might have come from another, like a horse from a tapir. In that case, there would be direct in-between forms. But this would mean one species stayed the same for a long time while its descendants changed a lot. This is very rare because new, better-adapted species usually outcompete and replace the older ones.
