Sometimes, when cattle from different breeds have babies, the shape of the babies’ horns is influenced by the horns of their parents.

For a very young animal, while it’s still in its mother’s womb, or inside an egg, or being cared for by its parent, it doesn’t really matter if it gets certain features a little earlier or later. For example, a bird that needs a long beak to get food wouldn’t mind if its beak grew longer a bit later, as long as its parents fed it. So, I think it’s possible that many of the changes that made a species look the way it does today might have happened later in life. Some evidence from pets and farm animals supports this idea. But in other cases, these changes might show up very early in life.

I said before that if a parent shows a certain change at a certain age, their child probably shows the same change at about the same age. Some changes can only happen at certain stages, like in the different life phases of a silk-moth or the horns of almost grown cattle. But even for changes that could happen earlier or later, they usually happen at the same age in parent and child. This isn’t always true, though, and sometimes changes show up earlier in the child than in the parent.

If these ideas are true, they can explain important facts about how animals develop before they’re born. But first, let’s look at some examples in pets and farm animals.

Some dog experts say that greyhounds and bulldogs, even though they look very different, probably come from the same wild dog. I wanted to see how much their puppies looked different, so I asked breeders. They said the puppies looked as different as the parents, and this seemed right at first. But when I actually measured the adult dogs and their six-day-old puppies, I found the puppies didn’t yet have all the differences their parents had. Also, I heard that baby horses from cart and race breeds looked as different as grown horses, but I was surprised by this. After measuring a three-day-old racehorse foal and a cart horse foal, I found the babies didn’t have all the differences that adult horses have.

Since it seems clear that many pigeon breeds come from one wild species, I compared baby pigeons from different breeds within 12 hours after they hatched. I measured parts like their beak, mouth width, nostril and eyelid length, feet size, and leg length. Some adult pigeons look so different that scientists might put them in different groups if they lived in the wild. But when I lined up the baby pigeons, their differences were much smaller than in adults. Some differences, like mouth width, were barely noticeable in babies. One big exception was the short-faced tumbler breed, whose babies looked almost as different from wild pigeons as the adults do.
