Whales (Cetacea) and animals like armadillos and ant-eaters (Edentata) have really unusual teeth compared to others.

One great example that shows how important it is for parts of living things to change together, even if it doesn’t help them survive, is the difference between the outer and inner flowers in some plants like daisies and carrots.

Everyone knows that the petals on the outside and inside of a daisy are different, and sometimes parts of the flower don’t fully grow. In some plants, even the seeds look different depending on where they grow in the flower, and the part that holds the seeds can be different too. Some people think this happens because the flowers are squished together. But in some cases, this isn’t true, like in certain carrot family plants where the biggest flower heads don’t always have the biggest differences. It might be about how food moves inside the flower. Also, in some flowers that are not symmetrical, the ones closer to the center sometimes change to look more regular. For example, in some garden flowers called pelargoniums, the middle flower often loses its dark spots on the petals and the nectar-producing part doesn’t grow properly.

About the difference in petals between the outer and inner flowers, I’m not sure that the idea by C. C. Sprengel—that the outer petals help attract insects which help the plant get pollinated—is wrong. If this helps the plant, then natural selection might be involved. But when it comes to the seeds being different inside and outside the flower, which doesn’t always match the flower differences, it’s hard to see how this helps the plant. Still, these seed differences are so important in some plants that scientists have used them to group these plants. This shows that changes in plant parts, which scientists think are really important, might just happen because of unknown rules about how plants grow and might not help the plant at all.

Sometimes, we might wrongly think that some features that all species in a group share are because the parts grow together, but really it’s because they inherited these features from a common ancestor. That ancestor might have changed one thing to help it survive, and later changed another thing, and these changes got passed down to many species. So, it might look like these changes are connected, but they aren’t really linked. Also, some connections seen in whole groups might just be because natural selection works a certain way. For example, a scientist named Alph. De Candolle noticed that seeds with wings are never found in fruits that don’t open. This makes sense because seeds can only slowly get wings if the fruit opens, letting the seeds spread out better. Plants with better seeds to spread would survive more, but this can’t happen if the fruit stays closed.
