A long time ago, Geoffroy and Goethe came up with an idea called the law of compensation or balance in growth. Goethe said that if nature spends a lot on one side, it has to save on the other side. I think this is true sometimes with animals and plants we raise at home. For example, if a cow gives a lot of milk, it usually doesn’t get very fat. Different kinds of cabbage don’t give both lots of leaves and lots of seeds full of oil. When the seeds in fruits get smaller, the fruit itself often gets bigger and better. In chickens, if they have a big bunch of feathers on their heads, their combs are usually smaller, and if they have a big beard, their wattles are smaller. 

In wild animals, this idea doesn’t always work perfectly, but many experts, especially plant scientists, believe it’s mostly true. I won’t give examples here because it’s hard to tell if one part grows big and the next part shrinks because of this rule or because of other reasons like natural selection or disuse.

I also think some examples of this balance and other facts might fit into a bigger idea: natural selection tries to save energy in every part of an animal or plant. If a body part used to be helpful but isn’t anymore, even a small shrinkage in that part will help the animal survive because it won’t waste energy growing something useless. 

For example, I noticed something interesting in barnacles (called cirripedes). When a barnacle lives as a parasite inside another animal and is protected, it loses its shell. This happens in a barnacle called Proteolepas. Normally, barnacles have a big shell made of three important parts of their head with strong muscles and nerves. But in Proteolepas, the front part of the head is almost gone because it’s protected and doesn’t need a shell. Getting rid of this big shell slowly helped each barnacle because it saved energy and made it easier to survive.

So, I believe natural selection will always try to shrink and save parts of the body that aren’t needed anymore, without making other parts bigger to balance it out. And it can also make some organs grow bigger without having to shrink other nearby parts.
