This has probably happened with the turnspit dog, and we know it did with the ancon sheep. But when we look at the dray-horse and race-horse, the dromedary and camel, or different kinds of sheep made for farms or mountains, each with wool good for different things; when we look at many dog breeds, each helpful to people in different ways; when we compare the tough game-cock with other chickens that don’t fight, or with hens that lay eggs all the time and never want to sit on them, and with the tiny, fancy bantam; when we look at many kinds of plants grown on farms, in kitchens, orchards, or flower gardens, each useful at different times or just pretty to people, we have to think about more than just random changes. We can’t believe all these breeds suddenly appeared perfect and useful. Actually, in many cases, we know that didn’t happen. The secret is that people have been choosing which animals or plants to breed over time. Nature gives small changes, and humans pick the ones they want and keep breeding those. In this way, people create useful breeds.

This idea of selection is very powerful and not just a guess. Some really good breeders have changed cattle and sheep a lot even in their own lives. To understand this fully, you’d have to read many books on the topic and see the animals yourself. Breeders often talk about an animal’s body as something soft and changeable, like clay they can shape however they want.

If I had more space, I could share many quotes from experts about this.

Youatt, who knew a lot about farming and was good at judging animals, called selection the magic wand that lets farmers not just change their animals but completely make new kinds. Lord Somerville said that sheep breeders seemed to have drawn a perfect sheep on a wall, then made that sheep real. Sir John Sebright, a great pigeon breeder, said he could get any feather he wanted in three years but would need six years to get the right head and beak. In Saxony, people treat merino sheep like art, studying them carefully three times over months, marking and sorting them so the best sheep are chosen to breed.

English breeders have shown how well this works by the huge prices people pay for animals with good family lines. These animals are now sent all over the world. The improvements don’t usually come from mixing very different breeds; most breeders don’t like doing that unless the breeds are very closely related. When they do cross breeds, they have to be even more careful in choosing which animals to breed next. If selection was just picking out a clear, different animal and breeding it, it would be simple and not very interesting. The real power is in slowly adding up tiny differences over many generations—differences so small most people can’t even see them. I, for one, have tried but failed to notice them. Only about one person in a thousand has the skill and judgment to be a top breeder.
