Watson thought some species were doubtful, but most British plant experts agree they are real species.

Varieties and species have the same main features, so it’s hard to tell them apart. The only way is by finding forms that link them together. These links don’t change the actual features of the forms. Also, if two forms are very similar, they are usually called varieties, even if no links are found. But how much difference makes two forms separate species is not clear. In groups with many species, there are usually many varieties too. Big groups of species often have species that are closely connected, forming small clusters. Species that are very similar often live in small, limited areas. In these ways, species in big groups act like varieties. This makes sense if species started as varieties, but doesn’t make sense if every species was made separately.

We’ve also seen that the strongest and most common species in large groups tend to have the most variations. Varieties can turn into new, separate species over time. So, big groups tend to get bigger, and nature’s most common forms keep spreading by creating many changed and strong descendants. But later, big groups also tend to split into smaller groups. This way, all life forms are organized into groups within groups.

Chapter III talks about the struggle for survival and how it relates to natural selection. The term “struggle” is used in a broad way. It explains how living things can increase quickly, like animals and plants that move to new places. But there are limits that stop them from growing forever, like competition and climate. The fight for survival happens everywhere and is toughest between individuals and varieties of the same species, and often between species in the same group. The relationship between living things is the most important of all.

Before we start this chapter, we need to remember that in nature, individuals do vary a little. No one really doubts this.

It doesn’t really matter if we call many unclear forms species, sub-species, or varieties, as long as we accept that clear varieties exist. But just knowing individuals vary and some varieties exist doesn’t explain how species come to be. How did all the perfect fits between different parts of an organism, and between one living thing and another, develop? We see these amazing matches clearly in things like woodpeckers and mistletoe, and even in tiny parasites that cling to animal fur or bird feathers. We see it in beetles that swim in water, in seeds that float gently in the air, and basically everywhere in nature.
