I mentioned the idea of reversion, so now I want to talk about something naturalists often say. They say that when domestic animals or plants escape and live in the wild, they slowly change back to how their original wild ancestors were. Because of this, some people think we can’t learn much about natural species by studying domestic ones. But I’ve tried to find clear proof for this idea and couldn’t. It would be hard to prove it’s true. Many domestic varieties are so changed that they probably couldn’t survive in the wild. Also, sometimes we don’t even know what the original wild kind looked like, so we can’t say if reversion really happened. To test this properly, you’d have to let only one domestic variety loose to avoid mixing with others. Still, since some domestic varieties do sometimes show traits from their wild ancestors, it’s possible that if we grew different types of cabbage for many generations in bad soil, they might mostly or completely change back to the wild kind. But whether this test would work or not doesn’t really matter here, because changing their environment also changes how they grow.

If it could be proven that domestic varieties usually lose their special traits when kept in the same conditions and bred together, then maybe we couldn’t learn anything from them about natural species. But there is no proof of this. Saying that we couldn’t keep breeding horses, cattle, chickens, or vegetables for many generations without losing their unique traits goes against all our experience. I should add that when natural conditions change, animals and plants might show new or old traits again, but natural selection will decide which traits stick around.

When we look at different breeds or races of domestic animals and plants and compare them to species that are closely related, we usually see that domestic races are less uniform in their traits than true species. Domestic races of the same species also often have some strange or extreme differences. This means that while they differ in small ways from each other and from related species, sometimes they have a very big difference in one part, especially compared to wild species. Except for this and the fact that different varieties can still breed together perfectly (which I will talk about later), domestic races differ from each other in the same way, but usually less, than closely related species in nature. I think we have to accept this because almost no domestic races have been agreed upon by experts to be either just varieties or separate species. If there was a big difference between domestic races and species, people wouldn’t keep arguing about this. Some have said domestic races don’t differ in important generic traits, but I believe this is mostly wrong. Still, scientists don’t agree much on what traits really matter for groups, and right now, these judgments are mostly based on experience, not clear rules.
