Let's now think about how extinct species are related to each other and to living species. They all fit into one big natural system, which makes sense if we believe that species come from common ancestors. Usually, the older a species is, the more it looks different from species alive today. But as Buckland said a long time ago, all fossils can be grouped with living groups or somewhere between them.

Extinct species help fill in the gaps between the groups we see today, like families and orders of animals. If we only look at living or extinct species alone, the picture isn’t as complete as when we put them both together. For example, in vertebrates (animals with backbones), scientists like Owen have shown many extinct animals that fit between groups we know today.

Cuvier used to think that two groups of mammals, ruminants (like cows) and pachyderms (like elephants), were very different. But Owen found fossil animals that link these two groups, so he changed the way we classify them. He even showed that pigs and camels, which seem very different, are connected through these fossils. For invertebrates (animals without backbones), Barrande said that ancient animals belonged to the same groups as living ones, but back then these groups were less clearly separated.

Some people don’t like the idea that extinct species can be "in between" living species. If they mean that an extinct species is exactly halfway between two living ones in every way, then that’s probably not true.

But I think in a natural way of grouping species, many fossils would fit between living species. Some extinct groups would fit between living groups, even between groups that seem very different now. For example, fish and reptiles today are very different, but ancient members of these groups were more similar, so the two groups were closer to each other back then.

Many people believe that the older a species is, the more it connects groups that are very different today. This is mostly true for groups that have changed a lot over time. It’s hard to prove this fully because sometimes even living animals, like the Lepidosiren (a lungfish), show traits linking very different groups.

Still, when we compare old reptiles, amphibians, fish, cephalopods (like squids), and early mammals with their more recent relatives, we see this is often true.

Now, let’s look at how these ideas fit with the theory that species descend with changes over time. This is a bit tricky, so it helps to look at the diagram in chapter four. Imagine the letters are groups of species, and the dotted lines show different species in each group. The diagram is simple and doesn’t show many groups or species, but that’s okay for now.
