When we sort living things into groups, we shouldn’t just look at parts of their bodies that seem similar, even if those parts are really important for the animal or plant to survive. Many scientists focus a lot on important organs when they classify species. This is usually a good idea, but not always.

The reason important organs help with classification is because they don’t change much across many species. These organs stay pretty much the same because they don’t have to change much for the species to live in their environments. But just because an organ is important for life doesn’t always mean it’s helpful for classifying animals or plants. For example, similar organs in related groups can have the same job but might not help us tell the groups apart.

Scientists who study living things have noticed this and talked about it a lot. One expert, Robert Brown, said that in some plant families, certain organs don’t help much in deciding how to group them. For example, in some plants, differences in organs like ovaries or seeds don’t always clearly separate one group from another. In insects, some body parts like antennae might be very similar in one group but very different in another, even though these parts work just as well in both groups. So, the same important organ can have different value when sorting species.

Also, organs that are small or not working well (called rudimentary or atrophied organs) aren’t important for survival, but they can be very useful for classification. For example, small leftover teeth in young animals like cows and deer show how they are related to big animals like elephants and hippos. Robert Brown also pointed out that tiny flower parts that don’t do much are very helpful for classifying grasses.

There are many examples of tiny or unimportant body parts that help scientists group species. For instance, whether fish and reptiles have a passage from their nostrils to their mouth is a small difference but very important for telling them apart. How marsupials’ jaws are shaped, how insect wings fold, the color of some algae, tiny hairs on grass flowers, or whether animals have hair or feathers are all small details that help group animals. If the platypus (Ornithorhynchus) had feathers instead of hair, scientists might think it’s closer to birds and reptiles just because of that outside feature, even though its inside organs are more important for showing its true relatives.
