So, it seems to me, like it does to many other scientists, that each species probably started in just one place. Then, it spread out as far as it could, based on how well it could move and survive in different conditions, both long ago and now.

Sometimes, though, we can’t figure out how the same species got from one place to another. But since the Earth’s geography and climate have changed a lot in recent times, this probably broke up or changed the areas where some species lived. So, we have to ask if these exceptions are so common or serious that we should stop believing that each species began in one area and moved from there. It would take too long to talk about every case where the same species lives far apart. I don’t even claim to explain all of them. But I will talk about some interesting examples: like the same species living on faraway mountain tops, in the Arctic and Antarctic, in freshwater places, and on islands and mainlands separated by hundreds of miles of ocean. If these cases can mostly be explained by species moving from one original place, then, considering how little we know about past climate and geography, it seems safest to believe this is generally true.

Talking about this also helps us think about something important: whether different species in the same group, which I believe all came from a common ancestor, could have moved from the place their ancestor lived, changing a bit as they moved. If it’s almost always true that one area’s animals are closely related to or belong to the same groups as animals in another area, then the first area probably sent some migrants to the second area in the past. This idea fits well with my theory because it explains why animals in one place are related to those in another where they came from. For example, a volcanic island that forms a few hundred miles from a continent would eventually get a few animals from the continent. Their descendants might change over time but would still be clearly related to the continent’s animals. These kinds of cases happen a lot and don’t make sense if you think species were created independently. This idea about how species in one place relate to those in another is similar to what Mr. Wallace recently said: that every species appeared at the same time and place as a closely related species. From what I’ve learned from him, he thinks this happens because of reproduction with changes.

What I said before about species starting in one or many places doesn’t directly answer another question: did all individuals of the same species come from a single pair or one individual, or did many individuals start the species at the same time, like some people think? For creatures that never breed with others (if those exist), my theory says the species must have come from a line of improved versions, each replacing the last. So, at each stage of change, all members of each version would come from a single parent.
