It seems to be a rule, as noticed by Is. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, that when a body part or organ is repeated many times in the same animal or plant (like the bones in snakes or the stamens in certain flowers), the number of these parts can change. But when the same part appears only a few times, the number usually stays the same.

The same scientist and some plant experts also said that parts repeated many times often change in shape or structure. Since this "vegetative repetition" (a term from Prof. Owen) shows a low level of organization, this idea fits with what many naturalists believe—that simpler creatures tend to be more changeable than more complex ones. I think "low" here means the parts of the body aren’t specialized for one job. When a part has to do many different things, it makes sense that it can vary more, because natural selection doesn’t have to keep it perfect for just one use. It’s like a knife that cuts many things can have many shapes, but a tool made for one specific job needs a certain shape.

Natural selection always affects each part of a creature only in ways that help that part.

Some writers say, and I agree, that useless or leftover parts (called rudimentary parts) are often very changeable. We will talk more about these parts later. For now, I’ll add that these parts vary a lot because they aren’t useful, so natural selection doesn’t stop changes in them. These parts are free to grow in all sorts of ways, can be affected by being unused for a long time, and may sometimes even change back to old forms.

If a part in a species is developed in a very unusual way compared to the same part in related species, it usually changes a lot. Years ago, I saw a comment by Mr. Waterhouse that said something like this. Professor Owen also noticed this with the long arms of the orangutan. I have many facts to prove this, but I can’t put them all here. I believe this is a very common rule. I know there can be mistakes, but I’ve tried to avoid them.

This rule doesn’t apply to every part, only to parts that are developed very differently compared to the same parts in closely related species. For example, bats’ wings are very unusual for mammals, but since all bats have wings, the rule doesn’t apply here. But if one bat species had wings that were very different from other bats, the rule would apply.

The rule works very well for secondary sexual characters—these are features that only one sex has but aren’t directly involved in reproduction. The rule applies to both males and females, but since females rarely have these striking features, it applies to them less often. This rule might be because these characters are naturally very changeable. But the rule isn’t only about these features. For example, it also applies to hermaphrodite cirripedes (a type of sea creature). I paid close attention to Mr. Waterhouse’s comment while studying them, and I’m sure the rule almost always works for cirripedes too.
