There’s no good reason to think that species were made with different levels of sterility on purpose to stop them from mixing in nature, just like there’s no reason to think that trees were made hard to graft together so they wouldn’t grow connected in forests.

When two pure species with perfect reproductive systems cross, their sterility can happen for different reasons, sometimes because the embryo dies early.

Hybrids, which come from two different species and have messed-up reproductive systems, often have sterility similar to pure species that lose fertility when their natural living conditions change. This idea is supported by the fact that crossing species that are only a little different usually makes stronger, more fertile offspring. Also, small changes in living conditions seem to help the strength and fertility of living things. It makes sense that the difficulty of crossing two species and how sterile their hybrid babies are usually match up, even though they happen for different reasons. Both depend on how different the species are. It’s also not surprising that how easy it is to cross species, the fertility of their hybrids, and whether they can be grafted together tend to go together, because all these things relate to how similar the species are.

When you cross species that are very similar or considered just varieties, their offspring are usually fertile, but not always. This makes sense because we often define varieties based on how they look, not on their reproductive systems. Apart from fertility, hybrids and mongrels (offspring of different varieties) are very similar. So, the facts here don’t go against the idea that species and varieties aren’t fundamentally different.

In Chapter 9, I talked about the problems with the fossil record, like why we don’t find many in-between species today or in fossils. I also explained how long it takes for layers of rock to form and wear away, how incomplete our fossil collections are, and how fossil layers can appear suddenly with groups of species showing up all at once.

In Chapter 6, I listed the main problems people might have with the ideas in this book. Most of these have been talked about by now. One big problem is that species seem very distinct and don’t blend together through lots of in-between forms, which is a clear challenge.
