To decide if a plant or animal should be called a species or just a variety, we usually listen to expert scientists who know a lot about nature. But sometimes, experts don’t agree. Many plants that look very different are called species by some scientists and varieties by others.

These confusing cases happen a lot. If you look at plant lists from places like Great Britain, France, or the United States, different scientists often disagree on how to name them. For example, Mr. H. C. Watson helped me by naming 182 British plants that most people call varieties, but some experts call species. He didn’t include small differences or some groups with many different types. Another example is how Mr. Babington lists 251 species in some groups of plants, but Mr. Bentham lists only 112, showing a big difference in opinion.

With animals, especially ones that move around a lot, scientists usually agree more, but even then, in different places, they can disagree. For example, birds and insects in North America and Europe sometimes look very similar but are called species by one expert and just varieties or “geographical races” by another. When I studied birds from the Galapagos Islands and nearby places, I saw how unclear the difference between species and varieties really is. Even in small island groups like Madeira, some insects are called varieties by one scientist but would be species to others. Ireland has animals often called varieties but sometimes species. Some bird experts say the British red grouse is just a type of Norwegian bird, while most say it’s a unique species in Britain.

Many scientists think that if two groups live far apart, they should be different species. But how far is far enough? Is the distance between America and Europe enough? What about smaller places like the Azores or the Canaries? Many plants and animals that some experts call varieties look so much like species that other experts call them species. But since there’s no clear definition of species or variety that everyone agrees on, arguing about their names is pretty useless.

There are many interesting cases of plants and animals that are hard to classify, and scientists have studied them using ideas about where they live, how they change, and how they breed. One famous example is the primrose and cowslip. They look different, taste and smell different, bloom at different times, grow in different places, live at different heights on mountains, live in different areas, and it’s hard to crossbreed them, according to many experiments by a careful scientist named Gartner.
