Agassiz says that old animals kind of look like the babies (embryos) of animals we have today in the same groups. He thinks the order in which extinct animals appeared over time is a bit like how animals develop before they’re born. But some scientists like Pictet and Huxley don’t think this idea is proven yet. Still, I believe it might be true for smaller groups of animals that split off from each other more recently. This idea fits well with natural selection. Later, I’ll try to explain that adults are different from their embryos because of changes that happen later in life and get passed down. This means embryos stay pretty similar, but adults change more and more over generations.

Because of this, embryos act like a picture that nature keeps of how ancient animals looked before they changed. This might be true, but we might never be able to fully prove it. For example, the oldest mammals, reptiles, and fish we know about already fit into their own groups, even though some of these old animals are a little less different from each other than animals today. So, it would be pointless to look for creatures that show the common early features of vertebrates until we find really ancient fossils way below the oldest known layers, which is very unlikely.

About how the same types of animals show up in the same places during later times: A long time ago, Mr. Clift showed that fossil mammals found in Australian caves were very similar to the marsupials living there now. In South America, you can see a similar connection easily, like with big armor pieces like those on armadillos found in some places. Professor Owen proved that many fossil mammals buried there are related to South American animals today. This link is even clearer in the fossil bones found by Lund and Clausen in Brazilian caves. I was so impressed by this that in 1839 and 1845, I talked about this ‘law of the succession of types’—how dead and living animals in the same continent are connected. Professor Owen later showed this is true for mammals in the Old World too. We see the same idea with extinct giant birds in New Zealand and birds from Brazilian caves. Mr. Woodward found it’s true for sea-shells, but because many shell types spread widely, it’s not as obvious. There are other examples, like extinct and living land shells from Madeira, and shells from the Aralo-Caspian Sea.

So, what does this cool law about the same types showing up in the same places mean? It would be crazy for someone to say that Australia and parts of South America have different animals just because their climates are different, and at the same time say that similar climates explain why the same types lived there during later periods. Also, it’s not a fixed rule that marsupials only came from Australia or that certain American animals only came from South America. We know that Europe used to have many marsupials long ago, and I’ve shown that how land mammals were spread out in America was different before. North America used to have more animals like those in the southern part, and the south used to be more connected to the north than it is now.
