It's really surprising that traits can show up again after being lost for many, even hundreds, of generations. But when a breed is crossed just once with another breed, sometimes the babies show traits of the other breed for many generations—some say even 12 or 20 generations. After 12 generations, the chance of having genes from one ancestor is only 1 in 2048, but people still believe that even this tiny amount can bring back old traits.

In a breed that hasn’t been crossed but where both parents lost a certain trait their ancestor had, there might still be a small chance to bring that trait back for many generations. When a lost trait appears again after many generations, it probably isn’t because the offspring suddenly look like a very distant ancestor, but because each generation had a small chance of showing that trait. Over time, and with the right conditions, that trait can become more common. For example, in barb-pigeons, which very rarely have blue and black-barred feathers, there might be a small tendency each generation to develop those colors. This idea is just a guess, but some facts support it. It’s not more unlikely for traits to be passed down for many generations than for useless or leftover body parts to be inherited. Sometimes, we even see a tendency to grow a tiny leftover part, like a small fifth stamen in snapdragon flowers, which shows the plant has a built-in chance to make it.

Since all species in the same group (genus) probably came from a common ancestor, it makes sense that they might sometimes change in similar ways. So, a variety of one species might look like another species, which is just a well-established variety. But these shared traits would probably be unimportant, because important traits are controlled by natural selection based on the species’ lifestyle, not just by inherited traits and living conditions. We might also expect species in the same group to sometimes show traits that were lost a long time ago. But since we don’t know exactly what the common ancestor looked like, it’s hard to tell if a trait is a reversion or just a similar new variation. For example, if we didn’t know that rock pigeons don’t have feathered feet or fancy head feathers, we couldn’t say if these traits in domestic pigeons were reversions or just new changes. But we might guess that the blue color is a reversion because of the number of markings that go with the blue tint, which probably wouldn’t all appear together by chance. Especially since blue color and marks often show up when different colored breeds are crossed. So, even though it’s usually hard to tell if a trait is a reversion or a new variation in nature, my theory says that sometimes offspring will show traits already found in other members of the same group. And this definitely happens in nature.
