Both hybrids and mongrels can be changed back to look like one of their pure parent types by breeding them again and again with that parent over several generations.

This mostly applies to animals, but things get really complicated because males and females can have different traits. Also, one parent’s traits might show up more strongly than the other’s when two species or varieties are crossed. For example, many people think the donkey has a stronger influence than the horse. So, mules (from a male donkey and a female horse) look more like donkeys than hinnies (from a female donkey and a male horse). The male donkey’s traits usually show up more than the female’s.

Some writers have said mongrels (mixed animals) usually look a lot like one parent, but this can happen with hybrids too, just less often. When animals do look exactly like one parent, it’s often because of strange traits like being all white or black, missing tails or horns, or having extra fingers or toes. These traits pop up suddenly and aren’t the kind that develop slowly over time. That’s why mongrels, which come from varieties that can suddenly change, are more likely to show these traits than hybrids, which come from species that changed slowly and naturally. Overall, I agree with Dr. Prosper Lucas, who studied many animals and found that kids look like their parents in the same way, whether the parents are very different or very similar, no matter if they are from the same variety or different species.

Ignoring whether the offspring can have babies or not, crossed species and crossed varieties look very similar. If you think species were created separately and varieties formed later, this similarity would be surprising. But it fits perfectly if you believe there isn’t a big difference between species and varieties.

Summary of Chapter — When two forms that are different enough to be called species mate, their hybrid babies usually can’t have babies themselves, but not always. This infertility can be very strong or very weak, and even the best scientists have disagreed on how to use this to classify animals. The level of infertility varies even between individuals of the same species and can be affected by good or bad conditions. It doesn’t always match how closely related the species are and follows some strange rules. It can be different depending on which parent is which species. Also, the first hybrid and its offspring may have different levels of infertility.

Just like grafting trees depends on unknown differences in their growth systems, crossing species or varieties depends on unknown differences in their reproductive systems that make it easier or harder for them to mate successfully.
