We shouldn’t expect to clearly see one species as the parent of another, even if we look very closely. That’s because we would need to find many in-between forms that show the change from the parent species to the new one. But these in-between forms are very hard to find because the fossil record is incomplete.

There are many living forms that are hard to classify and might just be varieties. But who can say for sure that future fossils will be found to prove if these are just varieties? Since most links between species are missing, if we find one in-between form, it usually gets called a new species. Also, only a small part of the world’s geology has been studied.

Only some types of living things can become fossils, and even then, only certain ones in large numbers. Species that live in many places tend to change more, and new varieties often start in one local area. This makes it even less likely we will find the in-between forms. Local varieties don’t spread far until they change a lot and get better. When they do spread and are found as fossils, they look like they suddenly appeared and are labeled as new species.

Most fossil layers were formed in bursts, not steadily, and these layers usually lasted shorter than the life of a species. There are big gaps of time between layers because thick fossil layers only form where lots of sediment builds up in sinking sea beds. When the land rises or stays the same level, no new layers form, so the fossil record is blank. During these blank times, species probably changed more, and during sinking times, more species died out.

About the missing fossils below the oldest known layers, I can only suggest what I said earlier: the fossil record is incomplete. Everyone agrees it’s incomplete, but not everyone agrees it’s as incomplete as I think. If we look over long periods, geology clearly shows species have changed slowly and gradually, just like my theory says. Fossils from layers close in time are more similar to each other than fossils from layers far apart.

These are the main problems people raise against my theory, and I have explained answers to them. I have worried about these problems for many years, but it’s important to note that most objections come from things we don’t really understand. We don’t know all the steps between simple and complex organs, how species spread over time, or how incomplete the fossil record really is. Even though these problems are serious, I don’t think they prove my theory wrong.

Now, let’s look at the other side. When humans breed plants and animals, we see a lot of variation.

This happens mainly because the reproductive system is very sensitive to changes in the environment. So, it often doesn’t produce offspring exactly like the parents. Variation is controlled by many complicated factors—like how growth is linked, the use or disuse of parts, and the effects of the environment. It’s hard to know exactly how much change humans have caused in domestic plants and animals, but we can be sure the changes have been big and can be passed down for many generations.
