We see this on every mountain, in every lake, and in every swamp. For Alpine species, except for some plants that spread all over the world during the recent Ice Age, they are related to the animals and plants living nearby in the lowlands. For example, in South America, there are Alpine hummingbirds, Alpine rodents, and Alpine plants, all of which come from American types. It makes sense that as a mountain slowly rises, animals and plants from the nearby lowlands would move up to live there. The same is true for animals living in lakes and swamps, except that some species spread easily around the world. We also see this with blind animals living in caves in America and Europe. Other similar examples exist. I believe it is always true that when two far-away places have many closely related species, they will also have some identical species. This shows that, in the past, there was movement or exchange of species between those places. When many closely related species live in one area, some naturalists call some of them different species and others just varieties. These uncertain cases help us understand how species change over time.

This idea about how well a species can move around, either now or in the past under different conditions, and how related species appear far apart, is also shown in a bigger way. Mr. Gould told me a long time ago that in groups of birds found all over the world, many species live in very large areas. I think this is usually true, even if it’s hard to prove. Among mammals, this is clear in bats, and a little less in cats and dogs. We also see it when we compare where butterflies and beetles live. The same goes for many freshwater animals, where some groups are found worldwide, and some species live in very big areas. This doesn’t mean all species in a worldwide group live far apart, only that some do. Species that live in large areas can change more easily and create new kinds, which affects how far they spread. For example, two versions of the same species live in America and Europe, so the species covers a huge area. But if these versions were different enough, they might be called separate species, and then each would have a smaller area. It also doesn’t mean that just because a species can fly far, like some strong-winged birds, it will always live in many places. To live far apart, a species must not only cross barriers but also survive and compete well with local species. If all species in a group came from one original species spread across the world, we should expect at least some species to live far apart. The original species needed to spread widely and change over time, creating new varieties and eventually new species.

When we think about groups of species found all over the world, we should remember that some are very old. They started from a common ancestor a long time ago. This means there was plenty of time for big climate and land changes, and for species to move around by chance. Because of this, some species have spread to all parts of the world and changed a little to fit their new homes.
