Even the most uncivilized people, like those from Tierra del Fuego, value their dogs more than their old women when food is really scarce—they might kill and eat the old women but not the dogs.

Plants have gotten better over time because people kept the best ones and grew them again and again. This happened even if the plants didn’t look very different at first or if different kinds mixed together. We can see this in plants like heartsease, roses, pelargoniums, and dahlias, which are bigger and prettier now than the old kinds or wild plants. No one expects to get a great heartsease or dahlia just from wild plant seeds. The same goes for pears; wild pear seeds don’t make good fruit, but seeds from garden pears might grow into better trees. In ancient times, people grew pears that were much worse than the ones we have now. Gardeners have gotten really good at making better plants, but they did it without fully understanding how. They just kept planting the best plants and chose any new plants that looked better. Ancient gardeners didn’t know how great our fruit would become, but by always picking the best, they helped improve it.

Because this slow improvement took so long, we often can’t tell where some garden plants originally came from in the wild. It took many hundreds or thousands of years to make our plants so useful. That’s why places with wild people, like Australia or the Cape of Good Hope, don’t have plants that are good for farming. It’s not because they don’t have useful plants, but because those plants haven’t been improved by people for a long time.

When it comes to animals kept by wild people, they usually have to find their own food at least part of the year. In very different places, animals of the same kind but with small differences might do better in one place than another. Over time, this can create two different types of the same animal. This might explain why animals kept by wild people often look more like different species than the animals kept by civilized people.

Because people have picked animals and plants that fit their needs or tastes, it’s easy to see why our farm animals and garden plants are so well suited to us. This also helps explain why our domestic animals often look very different on the outside but are quite similar inside.
