Any group that has fewer members is more likely to disappear than one with lots of members. In this case, the group in the middle is especially at risk because it is surrounded by close relatives on both sides. But an even bigger point is that when two groups are changing and becoming separate species, the ones with more members and bigger living areas have a big advantage over the smaller, middle group that lives in a narrow area. Groups with more members have a better chance of developing helpful changes that natural selection can work with, compared to the smaller groups. So, the common groups usually outcompete and replace the less common ones because they improve faster. This idea also explains why common species usually have more noticeable varieties than rare species.

To explain, imagine three kinds of sheep: one lives in a big mountain area, one in a small hilly area, and one on wide plains. If everyone tries equally hard to improve their sheep, the big groups in the mountains or plains will improve faster than the small group in the hills. Eventually, the better mountain and plain sheep will replace the less improved hill sheep. So, the two big groups end up living close together without the middle group in between.

In short, I think species become clear and don’t look like a confusing mix of all kinds of different and in-between forms. This is because new varieties form very slowly. Changes happen slowly, and natural selection can only work when useful changes appear and when there is a chance for a new form to fit better in its environment. These opportunities come from slow climate changes, new animals moving in, or old animals gradually changing. So, in any one place and time, we only see a few species with small but lasting differences, which is what actually happens.

Also, places that are connected now were often separated into smaller parts not long ago. In those smaller areas, many groups, especially animals that stay together at birth and move around a lot, could have become different enough to be called separate species. Back then, there must have been in-between forms linking these species to their common ancestor, but natural selection has since removed those in-between forms, so they don’t exist anymore.
