Some female ostriches, especially the American kind, work together to lay eggs. They put a few eggs in one nest, then more eggs in another nest. The males take care of these eggs until they hatch. This probably happens because the females lay a lot of eggs, but they do it every two or three days. However, this behavior in American ostriches isn’t perfect yet. Many eggs are left lying around on the plains, lost and wasted. One day, I found at least twenty eggs that had been abandoned.

Many bees are parasitic, meaning they lay their eggs in the nests of other kinds of bees. This is even more interesting than what cuckoos do. These parasitic bees don’t have the body parts needed to collect pollen because they don’t have to gather food for their babies. Some wasp-like insects called Sphegidae are also parasitic. Recently, a scientist named M. Fabre found out that one kind, Tachytes nigra, usually makes its own burrow and stores food for its young. But if it finds a burrow already made and filled by another wasp, it will use that burrow instead, acting like a parasite. Just like cuckoos, this habit could become permanent over time if it helps the species survive and doesn’t kill off the other insect.

There is a crazy instinct called slave-making, first discovered in a kind of ant called Formica (Polyerges) rufescens by a scientist named Pierre Huber. These ants really need their slaves to live. Without slaves, they would die out in just one year. The male ants and the queens don’t work. The worker ants, who are female but can’t have babies, are great at catching slaves but can’t do other jobs. They can’t build nests or feed their babies. When they need to move to a new nest, the slaves decide when to go and even carry the masters in their jaws. The masters are so helpless that when Huber trapped thirty of them without slaves but with plenty of food and baby ants, they did nothing and many starved.

Then Huber put one slave ant (F. fusca) into the group. She started working right away, feeding the others, fixing the nest, and taking care of the babies. Isn’t that amazing? If we didn’t know about other slave-making ants, it would be hard to explain how such a strange behavior could develop.

Another slave-making ant called Formica sanguinea was also discovered by Pierre Huber. This ant lives in the southern parts of England. Mr. F. Smith from the British Museum studied their habits and helped with information. Even though I trusted what Huber and Smith said, I wanted to be sure because the idea of ants making slaves sounds so strange and cruel. So I looked carefully myself. I opened fourteen nests of F. sanguinea and found a few slaves in every one. The slave ants’ males and queens stay only in their own colonies and are never found in the F. sanguinea nests. The slaves are black and much smaller than their red masters, so they look very different.
