Not all groups can keep getting bigger because the world doesn’t have enough space for them. So, the stronger groups end up beating the weaker ones. This is why big groups grow and change in different ways, while many species disappear. This explains why all living things are grouped into smaller groups inside bigger groups, all belonging to a few main classes we see everywhere today, and this has been true for a long time. This way of grouping living things doesn’t make sense if you think each was created separately.

Natural selection works by slowly adding small helpful changes, so it can’t make big or sudden changes. It only works step by step and very slowly. That’s why the saying “Nature doesn’t make jumps” fits perfectly with this idea. We can see why nature makes many different kinds of living things but doesn’t create sudden new kinds. But if each species was made on its own, no one can explain why nature would follow this rule.

There are many other facts that make sense with this idea. It’s weird to think a woodpecker was made just to hunt insects on the ground, or that upland geese, who rarely swim, were made with webbed feet. It’s strange that a thrush was made to dive for underwater insects, or a petrel was made to live like an auk or grebe. But if species try to grow in number and natural selection helps the slow changes fit into empty or less crowded places, these facts stop being strange and might even have been expected.

Natural selection works through competition, so it only improves animals and plants compared to others living in the same place. That’s why we shouldn’t be surprised if creatures from one country get beaten by species from another country. We also shouldn’t expect everything in nature to be perfect or fit our ideas of what’s best. For example, the bee’s sting kills the bee itself; drones are made in huge numbers just for one job, then killed by their sisters; fir trees waste lots of pollen; queen bees hate their own fertile daughters; and some parasitic insects live inside caterpillars. Actually, it’s surprising we don’t see more examples of things not being perfect if natural selection is true.

The rules about how living things change are the same for small differences and for new species, as far as we know. Physical conditions don’t seem to have much direct effect, but when different groups move into new areas, they sometimes start to look like the species already living there. Both small differences and species seem to be affected by use and disuse. We can see this in animals like the logger-headed duck, whose wings can’t fly, similar to a domestic duck; the burrowing tucutucu, which is sometimes blind; certain moles that are always blind and have skin covering their eyes; and blind animals living in dark caves in America and Europe.
