So, when it got warm again, the same cold-loving animals that used to live together in low areas across the Old and New Worlds ended up stuck alone on faraway mountain tops (because they died out at lower heights) and in the Arctic regions of both the northern and southern hemispheres.

This helps us understand why many plants are found in places really far apart, like on mountains in the United States and Europe. We also see that the plants on each mountain are more closely related to plants from the Arctic areas directly north of them. This happened because when it got cold, plants moved south, and when it warmed up, they moved back north. For example, the mountain plants in Scotland and the Pyrenees are similar to those in northern Scandinavia, the plants in the US mountains are like those in Labrador, and the Siberian mountain plants match the Arctic plants there. These ideas, based on the fact there was a big Ice Age, explain well why Alpine and Arctic plants are spread out like this. So, if we find the same species on faraway mountain tops, we can guess that colder weather once let them travel across warmer lands that are now too hot for them.

Some scientists in the US think that after the Ice Age, the climate might have been a bit warmer than today, based on some fossils, but I haven’t found good proof of this warmer time after the Ice Age.

During their long moves south and then back north, the Arctic plants and animals stayed in groups in similar climates, so their relationships didn’t change much and they didn’t evolve a lot.

But the Alpine plants on mountains had a different story. When it warmed up, they got separated, first at lower mountain parts and then only on the peaks. It’s unlikely that all the same Arctic species stayed on different mountains forever. They probably mixed with older mountain plants that lived there before the Ice Age and were pushed down to the plains during the coldest times. Also, the different mountain climates affected them differently. Because of this, their relationships changed a bit, so they evolved. Today, if we look at Alpine plants and animals on big European mountains, many are exactly the same species, but some show small differences, some are hard to classify, and a few are different but closely related species.
