I believe that all the different kinds of pigeons we see today came from the wild rock-pigeon. If they didn’t, then they must have come from at least seven or eight different original pigeon types. This is because you can’t make all the different domestic breeds by crossing fewer than that number. For example, how could a pouter pigeon be made by crossing just two breeds unless one of the parents had the big crop (the pouch on its throat)?  

These original pigeon types must have been rock-pigeons, which don’t usually live or perch in trees. But besides the common rock-pigeon and a few others, there aren’t many rock-pigeon species, and none of them have the features of the domestic breeds. So, either these original types still exist in the places where pigeons were first tamed but scientists just haven’t found them yet (which seems unlikely), or they have died out.  

Birds that live on cliffs and fly well are not easy to wipe out. The common rock-pigeon, which acts like the domestic ones, hasn’t disappeared even on some small British islands or around the Mediterranean. So, it seems very unlikely that many similar pigeon species with the same habits have all died out. Also, people have taken these domestic pigeons all over the world, and some have been brought back to their original homes, but none of these pigeons have gone wild again, except the dovecot-pigeon, which is just a slightly changed rock-pigeon.  

We also know from experience that it’s really hard to get wild animals to breed well when kept by humans. So, if the different pigeon breeds came from many species, it would mean that ancient people somehow managed to tame at least seven or eight wild pigeon species so well that they bred easily in captivity.  

Another strong point is that these domestic pigeons, while mostly similar to the wild rock-pigeon in their body, habits, sounds, colors, and structure, have very unusual features in some parts of their bodies. For example, no other pigeons have beaks like the English carrier or the short-faced tumbler, or feathers like the jacobin, or the big crop like the pouter, or tail feathers like the fantail. So, if these breeds came from different species, it means ancient people not only tamed several species but also picked out very strange and unusual ones, which have since disappeared or are unknown now.  

All these ideas seem very unlikely to me.  

We should also think about pigeon colors. The wild rock-pigeon is mostly blue-gray with a white patch on its lower back. Its tail has a dark end bar and white edges on some feathers, and the wings have two black bars. Some semi-domestic or wild pigeons even have wings with black checks. None of these color patterns appear together in any other pigeon species.  

In every domestic breed, if the birds are carefully bred, these color marks often appear perfectly. Also, when two different breeds that don’t have these colors are crossed, their babies can sometimes suddenly have these wild rock-pigeon colors. For example, I crossed all-white fantails with all-black barbs, and their babies were brown and black mottled. When I crossed those babies again, one grandchild had the perfect blue color, white rump, double black wing bars, and barred tail feathers with white edges — just like a wild rock-pigeon!
