Lakes and rivers are separated by land, so you might think that freshwater animals wouldn’t spread far within the same country. And since the sea is an even bigger barrier, you might think they wouldn’t spread to faraway countries either. But actually, the opposite is true. Many freshwater animals, from different groups, live in a huge range of places. Similar species are found all over the world. I remember when I first collected freshwater insects and shells in Brazil, I was surprised at how similar they were to those in Britain, even though the land animals around them were very different.

The reason freshwater animals can spread so widely, even though it seems strange, is probably because they are good at moving from pond to pond or stream to stream. This ability to move around often helps them spread out over large areas. We can only look at a few examples here. For fish, I don’t think the exact same species live in freshwater on different continents. But within the same continent, the same fish species can be found in many places, sometimes in a random way. Two rivers might share some fish species but also have some unique ones. Some stories even suggest fish can be accidentally carried by whirlwinds in India, and fish eggs can survive out of water for a while. But I think fish mainly spread because the land levels have changed recently, causing rivers to connect and let fish move between them.

Sometimes rivers connect during floods, even if the land level hasn’t changed.

We have proof that land levels have changed a lot recently, like near the Rhine River, where old land and freshwater shells were found. Fish on opposite sides of mountain ranges are very different because those mountains have always separated rivers, stopping fish from mixing. This supports the idea that changes in land and rivers helped fish spread. Some related freshwater fish are found very far apart in the world, and we don’t always know why. But some freshwater fish are very old species, so they had a lot of time to move and spread as the land changed.

Also, saltwater fish can slowly get used to living in freshwater. According to a scientist named Valenciennes, almost no group of fish lives only in fresh water. So, a sea fish might travel along the coast, then change and adapt to live in freshwater far away from its original home.

Some freshwater shells live in many places, and related species from one ancestor are found worldwide. This confused me at first because their eggs probably can’t travel on birds, and both adults and eggs die in sea water. I also couldn’t figure out how some species spread quickly in the same country.

But I’ve seen two things that help explain this, and I bet there are more we just haven’t noticed yet.
