Even if these things happen only rarely, I’m sure that the young animals or plants made this way will be stronger and healthier than those that come from self-fertilization for a long time. This means they’ll have a better chance to survive and have babies of their own. So, even if mixing genes happens only once in a while, it can still be very important over time.

Some living things never mix with others. They stay the same as long as their environment doesn’t change. They keep their traits because of how they inherit genes and because natural selection gets rid of those that don’t fit. But if their environment changes and they need to adapt, natural selection helps keep the best new traits in their babies.

Isolation is also very important for natural selection. In a small or separated area, conditions are usually similar everywhere. So, natural selection changes all the members of a species in the area in the same way. Also, mixing with others from nearby places is stopped.

Isolation helps by keeping out better-adapted organisms from moving in after changes like climate shifts or land rising. This leaves empty spots for the local creatures to compete for and adapt to by changing their bodies or habits. Isolation also slows down competition, giving new types of creatures time to improve. This can help create new species. But if the isolated area is very small, it won’t support many individuals, which makes it harder for new species to form because fewer good changes happen.

If we look at nature, small isolated places like ocean islands have fewer species overall. But many of the species there only exist on that island. This makes islands seem like great places for new species to form. However, we can’t really tell if small isolated places or big open areas like continents are better for making new species because we can’t compare them over the same amount of time.

I don’t doubt isolation is important for creating new species, but I think having a big area is even more important, especially for species that live a long time and spread out wide. In a big area, there are more individuals, so there’s a better chance for good changes to happen. The environment is also more complex because there are many different species. If some species improve, others have to improve too or they will die out. When a new form gets better, it can spread across the big area and compete with many others. So, there are more chances for new species to form, and the competition is tougher in big areas than in small isolated ones.
