We can understand why barriers like land or water are very important because they separate different animal and plant areas. This helps explain why certain groups of animals and plants live only in certain places. For example, in South America, the animals and plants living in plains, mountains, forests, swamps, and deserts are mysteriously connected, and they are also linked to extinct creatures that lived there long ago.

Knowing that relationships between living things are very important, we can see why two places with almost the same environment might have very different animals and plants. This depends on how long ago new species arrived, how they traveled, how many came, how they competed with native species, and how quickly they changed over time. Because of all this, different places have very different kinds of life, with some groups changing a lot and others only a little, and some being very common while others are rare.

Using these ideas, we can also understand why ocean islands have few animals and plants, but many of them are unique to those islands. We see why some groups, like frogs and land mammals, don’t live on ocean islands, but bats do because they can fly. We also understand why the number of mammals on an island relates to how deep the sea is between the island and the mainland. We see why animals on different islands in a group are similar but still unique, and why they’re connected, though less closely, to animals on the nearest continent. We also see why two faraway places can have some of the same species or closely related ones.

Edward Forbes pointed out that the rules of life are very similar across time and places. The way species change over time is much like how they differ in different places today. Species usually live continuously over time, and their living areas tend to be connected. When there are exceptions, it’s often because species moved in the past or disappeared from some places. Species and groups tend to be most common in certain times or places, and they often share small features like color or patterns. Over long times and across distant places, some living things change very little, while others, even if they are closely related, can be very different.
