I want to show that being unable to have babies (sterility) isn’t something special that species get on purpose, but just happens because of other differences they have.

When talking about this, people often mix up two different ideas: first, that two different species usually can’t have babies when they mate, and second, that the babies (hybrids) from those species often can’t have babies themselves.

Pure species have perfectly working parts to reproduce, but when two different species mate, they usually have few or no babies. Hybrids, the babies from two species, have reproductive parts that don’t work well, even though the parts look normal under a microscope. In the first case, the parents’ reproductive parts work fine, but in the second case, the hybrids’ parts don’t develop properly. This difference is important when trying to understand why sterility happens. People might have missed this because they thought sterility was a special trait that can’t be explained.

The fact that varieties (types of plants or animals that come from the same parents) can have babies with each other and their mixed offspring can also have babies is just as important as sterility in species. This helps us clearly separate varieties from species.

Now, about species being sterile when crossed and their hybrid babies: two scientists, Kolreuter and Gartner, spent a lot of time studying this and found that some sterility is very common. Kolreuter said it always happens, but he called ten cases where two species had babies “varieties” instead. Gartner also said sterility is universal but disagreed about those ten cases. He had to count seeds very carefully to find any sterility at all. He compared the number of seeds from crossed species and hybrids to the number from pure species in nature.

But there might be a big mistake here. To do these experiments, plants had to be castrated and kept away from insects that pollinate them naturally. Most of Gartner’s plants were kept in pots inside a room. This can hurt a plant’s ability to have babies. Gartner’s own data shows that about half the plants he castrated and fertilized themselves had fewer seeds than normal.

Also, Gartner tried crossing primroses and cowslips (which are believed to be varieties) many times but only got fertile seeds once or twice. He found red and blue pimpernels, which experts say are varieties, couldn’t produce babies together at all. He had similar results with other cases. So, it makes sense to question if many species are really as sterile as Gartner thought when crossed.
