One big problem in identifying species that change a lot is that their different types sometimes look like other species in the same group. There are many examples of forms that are in between two other forms, and it’s not clear if these should be called varieties or different species. This shows that when one form changes, it can take on features of another form, making a mix of both. The best proof of this is when important body parts sometimes change to look like those of a related species. I have found many examples of this, but I can’t share them all here. Still, these cases really happen and are very interesting.

I will tell you about one strange and complicated example. It’s not about an important feature, but it happens in several species of the same group, some wild and some raised by people. This example seems like a case of going back to an older trait. Donkeys often have clear stripes across their legs, like zebras. People say these stripes are clearest on baby donkeys, and from what I’ve learned, this is true. People also say the stripe on each shoulder can sometimes be double. The shoulder stripe changes a lot in length and shape. A white donkey that is not albino has been seen without any stripes on its back or shoulders. Dark donkeys sometimes have very faint or no stripes at all. A wild donkey called koulan has been seen with a double shoulder stripe.

Another type of wild donkey, the hemionus, doesn’t have a shoulder stripe, but sometimes faint traces appear, as some experts have said. Colonel Poole told me that baby hemionus donkeys usually have stripes on their legs and faint ones on their shoulders. The quagga, which looks like a zebra with stripes on its body, does not have leg stripes. But one quagga has been drawn with clear zebra-like stripes on its hocks (back part of the legs).

Talking about horses, I have found cases in England where horses of very different breeds and colors have a stripe down their back. Stripes across the legs are not rare in horses with a dun or mousedun color, and I even saw one chestnut horse with leg stripes. A faint shoulder stripe can sometimes be seen in duns, and I saw a small stripe in a bay horse. My son carefully looked at and drew a dun Belgian cart horse with a double stripe on each shoulder and leg stripes. A trusted man also checked a small dun Welsh pony that had three short stripes on each shoulder.

In northwest India, a horse breed called Kattywar is so often striped that Colonel Poole, who checked the breed for the Indian government, said a horse without stripes isn’t seen as purebred. These horses always have a striped spine, usually have barred legs, and often have a shoulder stripe that can be double or triple. Sometimes the side of their face is striped too. The stripes are clearest in baby horses and sometimes disappear in older ones. Colonel Poole saw both gray and bay Kattywar horses with stripes when they were babies.

I also think, from what Mr. W. W. Edwards told me, that English racehorse foals have the back stripe more often than grown horses.

Without going into more detail, I want to say I have found cases of leg and shoulder stripes in horses of many breeds, in countries all over the world—from Britain to Eastern China, and from Norway in the north to the Malay Archipelago in the south. These stripes happen most often in dun and mouse-dun horses. By dun, I mean a wide range of colors, from brownish-black to almost cream-colored.
