If someone doesn’t agree with these ideas about how the geological record works, they will probably reject my entire theory. They might ask where all the missing links are that should connect closely related species found in different layers of rock. They might not believe how much time has passed between these layers. They might ignore how important migration is when looking at formations in a big area like Europe. They might think it’s strange that whole groups of species seem to appear suddenly. They could also ask why we don’t find remains of all the countless living things that must have existed long before the first Silurian rock layer. I can only guess about this last question by saying that the oceans and continents have been mostly the same since the Silurian period, but before that, the world might have looked very different. Older continents made of rocks older than any we know might have changed completely or might now be under the ocean.

Putting those problems aside, most of the main facts in paleontology make sense if we accept the idea that species change over time through natural selection. This helps us understand why new species appear slowly one after another, why different kinds of species don’t always change at the same time or speed, but eventually all change to some degree. Old species die out almost always when new species come along. Once a species is gone, it never comes back. Groups of species grow in number slowly and last for different amounts of time because change happens slowly and depends on many things. The strongest species in big groups tend to have many changed descendants, creating new groups. Meanwhile, weaker groups tend to die out together and leave no descendants. But sometimes, a whole group disappears very slowly because a few members survive in safe, isolated places. Once a group is completely gone, it never comes back because the family line is broken.

We can also understand how the strongest and most changeable species spread out and fill the world with related but changed descendants. These new species usually replace the weaker species that can’t compete. That’s why after a long time, many species seem to change all at once.

We can see how all living things, old and new, are connected in one big family because they all come from earlier generations. We understand why the older a species is, the more different it usually is from species alive today. Old extinct species often help fill gaps between living species, sometimes blending two groups that were thought to be separate, but more often just making them more similar. The older a species is, the more it shows traits that are in between groups now seen as different, because it is closer to the common ancestor of those groups before they became very different.
