Small and broken groups of living things will eventually disappear. In the future, we can guess that the big and strong groups, which haven’t been broken up much or lost many members, will keep growing for a long time. But no one can say for sure which groups will survive forever because many groups that were once very common are now extinct.

Looking even further ahead, many smaller groups will completely die out and leave no descendants. So, out of all the species alive at any time, only a few will have descendants far into the future. I will talk more about this in the chapter on Classification. Also, because very few ancient species have living descendants now, and because all descendants of one species form a class, it makes sense why there are only a few big classes in animals and plants today. Even though most ancient species are gone, the Earth might have been as full of different kinds of living things a long time ago as it is now.

Summary of Chapter — Over many years and under different living conditions, living things change in their bodies, and this is something we can’t really deny. Because species can grow quickly, there is always a tough struggle to survive at some point, which also can’t be denied. Since all living things have very complex relationships with each other and with their environment, it makes sense that many useful changes would happen to help them survive, just like useful changes have happened to help humans.

If useful changes do happen, those individuals with the helpful traits have a better chance of surviving. Because traits can be passed down to their offspring, these traits become more common. I call this process Natural Selection. Natural selection can change living things at any stage of life, from eggs or seeds to adults. For many animals, sexual selection helps normal natural selection by making sure the strongest and best males have the most babies. Sexual selection also helps males develop traits that help them compete with other males.

Whether natural selection really works this way in nature will be shown by the evidence in the next chapters. But we already know it causes extinction, which has happened a lot in Earth's history, as shown by geology. Natural selection also causes species to become more different from each other because more variety means more living things can survive in the same place. We can see this by looking at the different animals in a small area or plants that have spread to new places. So, as descendants of one species change, and as all species struggle to increase in number, the more they become different, the better their chances of surviving. Small differences between varieties of the same species will keep growing until they become as big as differences between species of the same group, or even between different groups.
