This fact alone seems to have made Professor Pictet question his strong belief that species never change. Anyone who knows how species are spread across the world won’t try to explain why different species in layers of rock that are close in time look so similar just because the old environments stayed the same. Remember, sea creatures have changed almost at the same time all over the world, even in very different climates and conditions. Think about the huge changes in climate during the ice age period and notice how little the sea creatures’ specific types were affected.

According to the idea of species changing over time, the meaning of finding fossil remains from close layers of rock that are different species but closely related is clear. Since the layers were often formed with breaks in between, and long gaps happened between these layers, we shouldn’t expect to find all the in-between types in just one or two layers. But after long times—long for humans but short for geology—we should find species that are closely related or “representative species,” and we do find them. In short, this shows slow and almost unnoticeable changes in species, which is exactly what we should expect.

There has been a lot of talk about whether newer species are more advanced than older ones. I won’t get into that because scientists don’t all agree on what “advanced” means. But in one way, newer species must be better than older ones because they survived by being better at living than the ones before them. If creatures from a long time ago were put in today’s world, they would probably lose and die out. I believe this improvement affected the bodies of newer species compared to the old ones, but it’s hard to measure this kind of progress. For example, some crustaceans, which aren’t the top animals in their group, might have outdone the best molluscs.

Looking at what happened when animals and plants from Europe spread to New Zealand, we see they took over places that were already lived in. So, if all the animals and plants from Great Britain were set free in New Zealand, many of them would probably settle there and push out the native species. But the other way around, species from New Zealand rarely become wild in Europe. So if New Zealand’s animals and plants were set free in Great Britain, few would be able to take over places lived in by native species. From this view, we might say British species are “higher” than New Zealand’s. Still, even the smartest naturalists couldn’t have predicted this outcome just by looking at the species.
