Geological research has helped us find many new species, both living and extinct. It has also shown that some groups are more closely related than we thought. But it hasn’t really helped prove that different species are connected through many small, in-between types. This is a big problem for my ideas.

So, let me explain using an example. The Malay Archipelago is about the same size as Europe, from the North Cape down to the Mediterranean, and from Britain over to Russia. It’s as big as most places where geologists have studied the earth carefully, except for the United States. I agree with Mr. Godwin-Austen that the Malay Archipelago, with its many big islands separated by shallow seas, probably looked like Europe did when most of its rock layers were being formed. The Malay Archipelago has a lot of different living things, but if we collected all the species that ever lived there, it would still only show a small part of the world’s natural history.

We also believe that the land animals of the archipelago wouldn’t be well preserved in the rocks forming there now. I think many animals living right along the shore or on bare underwater rocks wouldn’t get fossilized. And animals buried in sand or gravel wouldn’t last a long time. If sediment (mud or sand) didn’t build up on the sea floor fast enough, or at all, no remains would be saved.

In the archipelago, thick fossil-rich rock layers could only form during times when the land was sinking. These sinking times would be separated by long periods when the land was still or rising. When the land rises, any fossil layers would be worn away quickly by waves, like what happens now on the coasts of South America. During sinking times, many species might die out. During rising times, many new variations would happen, but fewer fossils would be saved.

It’s uncertain if any long sinking period in the archipelago would last longer than the average life of species there. These sinking periods and sediment build-up are needed to save the small changes between species. If these changes aren’t saved well, then the in-between types would look like separate species instead. Also, each sinking period might be broken up by land moving up and down, and small climate changes could happen during these long times. Animals would have to move around, so their changes wouldn’t be recorded clearly in just one rock layer.

Many sea animals in the archipelago now live far beyond its islands. I think these wide-ranging species are the ones most likely to create new varieties. At first, these new types would only live in one place, but if they had an advantage or got better over time, they would slowly spread out and replace their original forms.
