Some more explanation is needed about why embryos don’t go through big changes called metamorphosis. If young animals needed to live differently from their parents, they might be built a bit differently too. Because of this, natural selection could make these young animals, or larvae, very different from their parents. These differences could also change as the larvae grow through different stages. For example, larvae in the first stage might look very different from larvae in the second stage, like we see with cirripedes. Adults might live in places or have habits where moving around or sensing things isn’t important, and in this case, the final change (metamorphosis) would be called “retrograde.”

All living things, both extinct and alive today, are connected and should be grouped together. The best way to organize them would be by family history or genealogy. I think descent, or where they come from, is the hidden connection naturalists have been looking for when they talk about the natural system. This is why many scientists think the structure of an embryo is even more important for classification than the adult form. The embryo shows the animal in a less changed state and reveals what its ancestors looked like.

If two groups of animals look very different now but go through similar stages as embryos, we can be sure they come from the same or similar ancestors and are closely related. So, similarities in embryos show shared ancestry, even if the adults look very different. For example, cirripedes can be recognized as crustaceans by looking at their larvae. Since embryos partly show us what ancient ancestors looked like, it explains why old, extinct animals might look like the embryos of animals living today. Agassiz thinks this is a natural law, but I am not sure yet and hope it will be proven true.

This law can only be proven if the ancient features shown in embryos haven’t been erased by lots of changes happening early in life or by changes being passed down earlier than they first appeared. Also, this idea might be true, but because we don’t have fossils going back far enough, it might take a long time, or maybe never, to prove it.

So, I believe the most important facts about embryos in natural history are explained by small changes that don’t show up early in life but appear later and are passed down at the same stage. Studying embryos is very interesting if we think of them as a kind of picture, sometimes unclear, of the common ancestor of each big group of animals.
