Looking far into the future, I think it’s pretty clear that the newer marine layers, like the upper Pliocene, the Pleistocene, and the modern beds found in Europe, North and South America, and Australia, should be considered to have formed at the same time in a geological way. This is because they have similar fossil remains and don’t include older types found in deeper layers.

The fact that life forms changed at the same time in faraway parts of the world really impressed some great scientists like MM. de Verneuil and d'Archiac. They noticed that similar changes happened in different places, like Europe and North America. They said this couldn’t just be caused by local things like changes in ocean currents or climate but must be due to bigger natural laws that affect all animals. Another scientist, M. Barrande, agreed with this idea. So, it doesn’t make sense to blame these huge changes in life on just local environmental changes.

As Barrande said, we have to think about some special law to explain this. We’ll understand this better when we look at where living things are found today and see how little their location depends on physical conditions like climate.

This big fact about life changing in a similar way all over the world fits with the idea of natural selection. New species come from new varieties that have some advantage over older ones. The species that are already strong and common in their area are more likely to create new types because these new types have to be even better to survive. We see this with plants that are common and spread out—they have made the most new varieties. It also makes sense that strong, changing, and widespread species that have moved into other species’ areas would have the best chance of spreading more and making new species in new places. This spreading might be slow because it depends on things like climate changes or accidents, but in the end, the strongest forms usually spread out. Spreading is probably slower for land animals living on separate continents than for sea animals living in connected oceans. So, we expect to see less perfect matching in how land species change over time compared to sea species.

When a strong species spreads from one area, it might meet an even stronger one, and then its success could stop or it might disappear. We don’t know exactly what conditions help new strong species multiply, but it seems that having a lot of individuals helps because there’s more chance for useful variations. Also, tough competition with many other species and the ability to move into new places would help. Some isolation from other groups, happening sometimes, would probably help too. Maybe one part of the world was best for making new strong land species, and another was best for sea species. If two big areas were equally good for a long time, their species would fight hard when they met, and some from each place might win.
