I think this process happened over and over until there became a huge difference between the fertile and sterile females of the same species, like we see in many social insects.

But there’s an even bigger problem we haven’t talked about yet. In some ants, the sterile workers don’t just differ from the fertile males and females—they also differ a lot from each other. Sometimes, there are two or even three different groups, called castes. These castes aren’t just a little different; they’re very different, almost like they belong to different species. For example, in the ant Eciton, there are worker ants and soldier ants with very different jaws and instincts. In Cryptocerus ants, one caste of workers has a strange shield on their heads, but no one knows what it’s for. In Mexican Myrmecocystus ants, one caste of workers never leaves the nest. They get fed by other workers and have huge abdomens that produce a honey-like substance, kind of like how some ants take care of aphids as their “cattle.”

You might think I’m too confident in natural selection because I don’t say these amazing facts disprove my idea. In simpler cases, where all the sterile insects are the same kind, natural selection could have made them different from the fertile males and females. I believe that small helpful changes first appeared in just a few sterile insects in a nest, not all of them. Then, by selecting the parents that made more sterile insects with those helpful changes, eventually all the sterile insects got those traits. If this is true, we should sometimes find sterile insects of the same species in one nest showing a range of differences, and we do see that, even though not many sterile insects outside Europe have been studied carefully.

Mr. F. Smith found that sterile ants in Britain can differ a lot in size and color. Sometimes, the biggest and smallest ants from the same nest can be connected by ants of middle sizes. I have seen examples like this too. Often, there are more big or small workers, or both, with fewer medium-sized ones. In the species Formica flava, the bigger workers have simple eyes called ocelli that are small but clear. The smaller workers have ocelli that are barely there. After carefully looking at several ants, I’m sure that the small workers’ eyes are much less developed than you’d expect just because they’re smaller. I also think the medium-sized workers have eyes that are in between the big and small ones. So, in one nest, there are two groups of sterile workers that differ in size and eyesight but are connected by some ants that are in the middle.

If the smaller workers had been the most useful to the colony, and the males and females that made more small workers were chosen again and again, then all the workers might have ended up like the sterile workers of the Myrmica ants.
