We don’t know for sure if the Ice Age happened at the exact same time in different places all around the world. But we do have strong proof that it happened during the latest geological period almost everywhere. Also, there is clear evidence that it lasted a very long time in each place. The cold might have started or ended earlier in some places than in others, but since it lasted a long time and happened around the same geological period, it’s likely that parts of the Ice Age were happening worldwide at the same time.

Without proof against it, we can guess that the Ice Age affected both the east and west sides of North America, the mountains near the equator, and the southern tip of the continent all at once. If that’s true, it’s hard not to believe the whole world got cooler during that time. But even if the temperature dropped only in certain wide areas, that would be enough for my point.

If parts of the world were colder at the same time, it helps explain why some plants and animals are found in very different places today. In America, Dr. Hooker found that 40 to 50 kinds of flowering plants in Tierra del Fuego are the same as those in Europe, even though these places are really far apart. There are also many plants that are closely related. On high mountains near the equator, many plants belong to groups usually seen in Europe. Some European plant groups were found on the highest mountains of Brazil, even though the hot lands between don’t have them. On the mountains of Caracas, Humboldt found plants like those in the Cordillera mountains.

In Abyssinia (now Ethiopia), some European plants and a few from South Africa’s unique plants grow there. At the Cape of Good Hope, a few European plants that weren’t brought by people grow, and on the mountains, some European relatives of local plants are found but not in the hot parts of Africa between. In the Himalayas, some mountains in India, the highlands of Ceylon (Sri Lanka), and volcanic mountains in Java, many plants are either exactly the same or very similar to those in Europe, but they don’t grow in the hot lowlands between.

A list of plants found high up on Java’s mountains looks like a list from a European hill! Even more amazing, some southern Australian plants are found on Borneo’s mountain tops. Some of these Australian plants also grow along the Malacca peninsula and are spread thinly across India and as far north as Japan.

In southern Australia, Dr. F. Muller found several European plants, and others grow in the lowlands without being brought by people. Dr. Hooker says many European plant groups exist in Australia but not in the hot areas between. In Dr. Hooker’s book about New Zealand’s plants, similar interesting facts are shared. So, around the world, plants on tall mountains and cooler lowlands in both the northern and southern hemispheres are sometimes exactly the same but more often are different species that are closely related.

This short summary is about plants only. Similar facts could be told about land animals. There are also similar examples in sea life; for example, a top expert, Professor...
