I know that Colonel Hamilton Smith, who has studied this topic, thinks that different kinds of horses come from different original species. One of these, called the dun, had stripes. He believes the stripes we see today are because of old mixing with this dun type.

But I don’t agree with this idea. I don’t think it works for very different horse types like the big Belgian cart-horse, Welsh ponies, cobs, or the slim Kattywar horses from faraway places.

Now, let’s look at what happens when different horse species breed. Rollin says that mules, which come from a horse and a donkey, often have bars on their legs. I once saw a mule with so many stripes on its legs that you might think it came from a zebra. Mr. W. C. Martin also showed a picture of a similar mule. In some drawings of hybrids between donkeys and zebras, the legs had clearer stripes than the rest of the body, and one even had a double stripe on its shoulder. Lord Moreton’s famous hybrid, from a chestnut mare and a male quagga, had stripes on its legs that were even clearer than on a pure quagga. Even the pure offspring from that mare and a black Arabian stallion had clear leg stripes.

Finally, there is a very interesting case shown by Dr. Gray. He knows of two hybrids between a donkey and a hemionus (a type of wild ass). Even though donkeys rarely have stripes on their legs and hemionus don’t have any, this hybrid had stripes on all four legs, three short stripes on its shoulders like a dun Welsh pony, and some zebra-like stripes on its face. Because I was so sure these stripes weren’t just random, I asked Colonel Poole if face stripes ever appear in the very striped Kattywar horses. He said yes, they do.

So, what can we say about all this? We see many different kinds of horses getting stripes on their legs or shoulders, like zebras or donkeys, just by small changes. In horses, this usually happens when they have a dun color, which is similar to the colors of other horse species. The stripes don’t come with any other changes in shape or features. The stripes show up strongest in hybrids between different horse species. 

Now think about pigeons: all the breeds come from one kind of bluish pigeon with certain bars and marks. When a breed turns bluish again, these bars and marks always show up, without changing the bird’s shape or anything else. When old breeds of different colors are crossed, the blue color and bars often come back in the mixed birds. 

I think the best explanation for these old characteristics showing up again is that young animals have a natural tendency to bring back these lost traits. Sometimes, this tendency wins for reasons we don’t fully understand. We have seen that in different horse species, stripes are clearer or more common in the young than the old.

If we call the pigeon breeds species, their case is very similar to that of horses. I believe that if we go back many, many generations, there was an animal striped like a zebra, but maybe shaped differently, that was the common ancestor of our domestic horses. This might be true whether or not horses also came from wild donkeys, hemionus, quaggas, or zebras.
