Only those changes that help an organism survive will be kept through natural selection. This is why having different traits is important; the most different or unique changes (shown by the outer dotted lines) are usually kept and added over time by natural selection. When a dotted line reaches one of the horizontal lines and is marked with a small letter and number, it means enough changes have happened to create a clear new variety that scientists would recognize.

The spaces between the horizontal lines in the diagram might each stand for a thousand generations, but it would be better if each showed ten thousand generations. After a thousand generations, species (A) is thought to have made two clear varieties, called a1 and m1. These varieties usually live in the same conditions that made their parent species change, and since the ability to change can be passed down, they tend to vary in similar ways as their parent did. Also, because these two varieties are just slightly different from their parent (A), they usually keep the advantages that helped their parent become more common than most other creatures in the area. They also share the general advantages that made their whole group (genus) large in their country. These things help new varieties form.

If these two varieties keep changing, the most different changes will usually survive during the next thousand generations. In the diagram, variety a1 then creates variety a2, which is more different from (A) than a1 was. Variety m1 creates two new varieties, m2 and s2, which are different from each other and more different from their parent (A). This process can go on for a long time; some varieties after each thousand generations make just one new variety that is more changed, some make two or three new varieties, and some don’t make any. So, the varieties that come from the original species (A) usually keep increasing in number and becoming more different. The diagram shows this process up to the ten-thousandth generation and in a shorter form up to the fourteen-thousandth generation.

But I want to say that I don’t think this process always happens as smoothly as the diagram shows, even though the diagram is a bit irregular. I don’t believe the most different varieties always survive and grow; sometimes a middle form lasts a long time and might or might not have more than one changed offspring. Natural selection works based on the types of places that are empty or not fully used by other creatures, and this depends on many complex relationships. But usually, the more different the descendants of one species become, the more places they can live in, and the more their changed offspring will increase. In the diagram, the line of descent is broken at regular points by small numbered letters showing the forms that have changed enough to be called varieties. But these breaks are just for showing and could be placed anywhere after enough time has passed for many changes to build up.
