So, when living things are put in new or unnatural situations, or when two different species are mixed to make hybrids, their ability to have babies is affected in a similar way, no matter how healthy they are. In one case, their life conditions change, sometimes in ways we can’t even notice. In the other case, with hybrids, their environment stays the same, but their body is confused because it’s a mix of two different kinds. It’s hard for two different bodies to come together without causing some problems in how parts of the body grow or work together. When hybrids can have babies with each other, they pass on this mixed body to their kids, so their trouble having babies usually stays the same over time.

But, we don’t really understand why this happens. For example, sometimes hybrids from the same parents but switched around don’t have equal chances to have babies. Or, hybrids that look more like one of their parents might have more trouble having babies. I’m not saying I have all the answers about why living things become sterile in weird situations. I just wanted to show that both cases—life conditions changing or the body being mixed up—often lead to trouble having babies.

It might sound strange, but I think a similar idea applies to other facts. Many people believe—and there’s some proof—that small changes in living conditions can actually be good for living things. Farmers and gardeners know this when they move seeds and plants to different soils or climates. When animals are getting better after being sick, changing their routine helps a lot. Also, when plants or animals from slightly different groups of the same species have babies, their kids are often healthier and can have more babies. I even think that some mixing is necessary, even for creatures that have both genders in one body. But if close relatives keep breeding for many generations in the same place, their kids often become weak and can’t have babies.

So, on one side, small changes in life conditions help living things. On the other side, small mixes between slightly different members of the same species make stronger, more fertile babies. But bigger changes, or mixing species that are very different, usually make living things partly sterile. I don’t think this pattern is just a coincidence.

These facts seem to be connected by some unknown but important force that has to do with what life really is.
