It's clear that different species within the same group, even if they live far apart around the world, originally came from the same place because they share a common ancestor. For species that haven’t changed much over long periods, it’s easy to believe they moved from one area to others. Since the Earth’s geography and climate have changed a lot over time, animals and plants could have traveled far.

But for species that appeared more recently, it’s harder to explain how they got to distant places. Also, individuals of the same species living in far-off areas must have come from one original spot where their parents first lived. It’s very unlikely that identical individuals came from parents that were different species.

This brings us to a big question scientists have talked about a lot: were species created in one place or many places on Earth? It’s often hard to understand how the same species could have traveled to faraway places where they are found now.

Still, the simple idea that each species started in one place is convincing. If you don’t believe this, you have to believe in a miracle instead of natural processes like reproduction and migration. Usually, a species lives in one continuous area. When a plant or animal is found in two faraway places that are hard to reach by moving, this is seen as unusual.

Land animals, especially mammals, don’t usually cross seas easily, so we don’t see the same mammal species living in very distant parts of the world. For example, no scientist would be surprised that Great Britain and Europe share many land animals because they were once connected.

But if species can start in two different places, why don’t we find the same mammal species in Europe and Australia or South America? The environments are pretty similar, and many European plants and animals have spread to America and Australia. Some native plants are even exactly the same in far parts of the world.

I think the reason is that mammals can’t travel across oceans, but some plants can spread far because they have different ways to move around. Barriers like oceans and mountains have a big effect on where species live. This makes sense only if most species were created in one place and couldn’t move to the other side.

Some groups of animals and plants are only found in one region. Scientists have noticed that the closest related species usually live near each other in one area. It would be very strange if, at the level of individuals within a species, the opposite were true—that species were made in many separate places!
