The horizontal lines might show different layers of rock from long ago, and everything below the top line can be thought of as extinct. The three living groups, a14, q14, and p14, make up a small family; b14 and f14 form a closely related family or sub-family; and o14, e14, m14 make a third family. These three families, along with many extinct groups that came from the same original ancestor A, form a bigger group called an order. They all share something because they came from the same ancient ancestor.

Based on the idea that species tend to change and become different over time, the newer a form is, the more it usually looks different from its ancient ancestor. That’s why the oldest fossils look the most different from animals living today. But this change isn’t always necessary. Sometimes, a species can change just a little over a long time and still keep most of its original features, like the example shown by F14.

All the forms, extinct and living, that come from A make one order. Over time, because of extinction and species changing, this order split into several smaller families. Some families died out long ago, and some are still around today.

Looking at the diagram, if many extinct forms were found in the older layers, the three living families on the top line would look more connected. For example, if fossils like a1, a5, a10, f8, m3, m6, m9 were found, the three families might have to be combined into one big family, similar to how ruminants and pachyderms were grouped. But someone might not want to call these extinct groups “in-between” forms because they connect the living groups only through a long and complicated path with many different forms.

If fossils were found only above one middle layer, like layer VI, and none below it, then only the two families on the left (a14 and b14 groups) would have to be joined into one family. The other two families would still be separate but less different from each other than before. For example, if the living groups differ by about twelve features, at layer VI they would differ by fewer features because they hadn’t changed as much yet. This is why ancient extinct groups sometimes seem a little like a mix between their changed descendants or related groups.

In real life, things are more complicated than this diagram shows. There are more groups, they lived for very different amounts of time, and they changed by different amounts. Since we only have the latest part of the geological record, and even that is incomplete, we shouldn’t expect to find fossils that perfectly fill in the gaps between families or groups. What we can expect is that groups that changed a lot over known geological times will look a little more alike in older layers. This idea is supported by what many paleontologists have found.
