In the end, I think that differences which make one species different from another change more than the features that all species in a group share. Also, parts of an animal that are extra special or developed in one species can change a lot compared to the same parts in related species. But if a part is really important and shared by all species in a group, it doesn’t change much, even if it looks very different.

Secondary sexual traits, like things related to males and females, change a lot and vary a lot between closely related species. These traits and the regular differences between species usually show up in the same parts of the body. All of this happens because species in the same group come from a common ancestor and have inherited many features from them. Parts that have recently changed a lot tend to keep changing more than parts that have stayed the same for a long time. Natural selection controls how much traits change over time, and sexual selection is less strict than natural selection. Both natural and sexual selection add up variations in the same parts of the body to help with mating and survival.

Different species show similar kinds of changes. Sometimes, a variety of one species will have traits like those of a related species or even go back to traits from an early ancestor. You can see this clearly with domestic animals. For example, very different breeds of pigeons from far apart places sometimes have feathers in places like on the head or feet, which the wild rock pigeon doesn’t have. These are similar changes happening in different pigeon breeds.

Also, some pigeons have more tail feathers, which is a change like what another breed normally has. Everyone agrees these similar changes happen because all pigeon breeds come from the same ancestor and share the same potential to vary when affected by similar unknown factors. In plants, we see something like this too. For example, the Swedish turnip and Ruta baga have big stems or roots, and some botanists think they are just varieties from the same original plant. If not, this would be a similar change happening in different species. Another plant, the common turnip, is also similar. If each species was created separately, we would have to believe these similar features were made by three different but very similar acts of creation.

With pigeons, there’s another example. Sometimes, all breeds have slaty-blue birds with black bars on their wings, a white rump, a bar on the tail, and white edges on some feathers. These are the exact marks of the wild rock pigeon. So, this is probably a case of reversion, meaning the birds show traits from their ancestor again, not a new similar change. We can be sure because these marks often show up in babies of two different pigeon breeds mixed together, and there’s no change in their environment causing the slaty-blue color to come back—just the way inheritance works when breeds cross.
