This time period is usually not very far back because species don’t usually last longer than one geological period. A lot of changes mean there was a long time for differences to build up, thanks to natural selection helping the species survive. Since the changes in a certain body part have been big and lasted a long time, we can usually expect that part to still have more variations than other parts that have stayed mostly the same for a longer time. I believe this is true.

The fight between natural selection and the tendency to go back to old traits or change will stop eventually. Even very unusual body parts can become stable over time. So, when a strange body part is passed down in a similar form to many related species, like a bat’s wing, it must have stayed mostly the same for a very long time and isn’t more changeable than other parts. Only when a change is recent and very big should we expect to see a lot of variation still happening.

This is because the variation hasn’t yet been fixed by natural selection picking the right changes and getting rid of the ones that go back to older forms.

This idea can go further. It’s well known that traits unique to a species change more than traits shared by a whole group (genus). For example, if some plants in a big group have blue flowers and others have red, the flower color is a species trait. It’s normal for blue flowers to sometimes change to red or the other way around. But if all the plants had blue flowers, then the blue color would be a group trait, and changes would be less likely.

Many people say species traits vary more because they come from less important parts of the body, but I think that’s only partly true and not the full story. I will talk more about this in the chapter on Classification.

It’s clear that species traits vary more than group traits. In nature books, when writers are surprised that an important body part, usually the same in many species, is different in closely related species, they also notice that this part varies within those species. This shows that a trait, usually important for the whole group, can become just a species trait and start to vary, even if its importance stays the same. This idea is similar when it comes to unusual body features.

Geoffroy St. Hilaire believed that the more a body part normally differs between species in the same group, the more likely it is to have individual oddities.

If each species was created separately, why would the parts that are different between species be more changeable than the parts that look the same? There’s no good answer for that. But if species are really just strong, fixed versions of varieties, then we can expect them to still change in the parts that have changed recently and caused their differences.
