Seedlings are also destroyed in huge numbers by different enemies. For example, on a small patch of ground three feet long and two feet wide, dug and cleared so no other plants could crowd them, I counted all the seedlings of our native weeds as they grew. Out of 357 seedlings, 295 were destroyed, mostly by slugs and insects.

If grass that has been cut for a long time, or eaten by animals, is left to grow, the stronger plants slowly kill the weaker ones, even if those weaker ones are fully grown. For example, on a small patch of turf (three feet by four), nine out of twenty plant species died because the other plants were allowed to grow freely.

The amount of food for each species sets the maximum number of that species. But often, it’s not just food that limits their numbers; being eaten by other animals also plays a big role. For example, the number of partridges, grouse, and hares on a big estate mainly depends on killing pests. If no game animals were hunted in England for twenty years and no pests were killed, there would probably be fewer game animals than now, even though many are hunted every year. On the other hand, animals like elephants and rhinos are not usually killed by predators. Even tigers in India rarely attack young elephants protected by their mothers.

Climate is very important in deciding how many of a species survive. Extreme cold or drought seasons are the strongest controls. I estimated that the winter of 1854-55 killed four-fifths of the birds in my area. This is a huge loss, especially when we know that even a 10% death rate from diseases in humans is very serious. Climate may seem separate from the fight for survival, but since it mostly affects food supply, it causes tough competition between individuals for the same food. When cold weather hits, the weakest or hungriest animals suffer the most.

When we travel from south to north or from a wet area to a dry one, some species slowly become rarer and then disappear. Because we see the change in climate, we might think that’s the only reason. But this is wrong. Every species faces huge losses from enemies or competitors for food and space. If a change in climate helps these enemies or competitors, they will increase in number, causing the other species to decrease. So, when we move south and see a species becoming less common, it’s just as much because other species are doing better as because that species is struggling. The same happens when going north, but less so because there are fewer species and competitors there. Going north or up a mountain, we more often see plants and animals that are smaller or weaker because of the direct effects of climate, than when going south or down a mountain.

When we reach the Arctic, snowy mountain tops, or deserts, the fight to survive is mostly against the harsh environment.
