Sometimes, changes in animals happen not just because they stop using certain body parts, but mainly because of natural selection. Mr. Wollaston found something interesting about beetles in Madeira. Out of 550 species, 200 don’t have wings that work, so they can’t fly. Also, 23 out of 29 groups of beetles there are all wingless!

There are some reasons for this. Beetles often get blown out to sea and die. In Madeira, beetles hide until the wind calms down and the sun comes out. More wingless beetles live on the windy Dezertas islands than on Madeira itself. Plus, some big groups of beetles that usually fly a lot are almost completely missing on these islands. Because of these facts, I think natural selection mostly caused the wingless beetles, with some help from them just not using their wings. Over many generations, beetles that flew less had a better chance to survive because they weren’t blown away. Those who flew more often got blown out to sea and died.

Beetles in Madeira that don’t live on the ground, like those that feed on flowers, still have big wings. Mr. Wollaston thinks this is because they need to fly to get food. This fits with natural selection too. When an insect first arrived on the island, natural selection either made wings bigger or smaller depending on whether flying helped them survive the wind or made them get blown away. It’s like shipwrecked sailors: good swimmers would survive better if they swam farther, while weaker swimmers might be safer sticking to the wreck.

Moles and some rodents that dig underground have very small eyes, and sometimes their eyes are covered by skin and fur. This probably happened because they stopped using their eyes, but natural selection might have helped. In South America, a burrowing rodent called the tucotuco lives mostly underground and is often blind. One I kept had an eye infection, which showed why their eyes might shrink. Since eye problems can be harmful and eyes aren’t needed underground, smaller eyes covered by fur could be helpful. Natural selection would support this change along with the lack of use.

Many animals living in dark caves, like in Styria and Kentucky, are blind too. Some crabs have eye stalks but no eyes. It’s hard to think that useless eyes would hurt animals in the dark, so I think their eyes disappeared just because they weren’t used. Interestingly, a blind cave-rat has very big eyes, and a professor said it might see a little after being in the light for some days.
