When I found out that these young trees hadn’t been planted or sown, I was really surprised by how many there were. I went to different places where I could look over hundreds of acres of open heathland, and I couldn’t see a single Scotch fir tree, except for the old groups that had been planted.

But when I looked closely among the heath plants, I saw lots of tiny seedlings and little trees. These had been constantly eaten down by cattle. In one small area, far away from the old tree groups, I counted thirty-two little trees. One of them had been trying for twenty-six years to grow taller than the heath plants but had failed. It’s no surprise that once the land was fenced off, many young fir trees grew strongly. The heath was so poor and big that no one would have guessed cattle would search it so thoroughly for food.

Here we see that cattle control whether Scotch fir trees can live. But in some places, insects control whether cattle can live. Paraguay is a strange example because cattle, horses, and dogs have never gone wild there, even though they are wild in other places nearby. Scientists Azara and Rengger found out this happens because a certain fly in Paraguay lays eggs in the navels of baby animals. Birds probably keep these flies under control by eating them. So, if more insect-eating birds appeared in Paraguay, the flies would decrease, and then cattle and horses could go wild. This would change the plants, which would change the insects again, and so on, creating a complex cycle. We started talking about insect-eating birds and ended with them. Nature is never this simple. There are always many battles between species, and even small changes can give one species an advantage. Still, nature stays mostly the same for a long time. But we don’t understand much about how it all works, and we get surprised when a species disappears. When we don’t see why, we imagine big disasters or make up rules about how long species should last.

I want to give one more example showing how plants and animals, very different from each other, are connected by complicated relationships. Later, I will explain that the exotic Lobelia fulgens plant in England is never visited by insects, so it can’t make seeds. Many orchids need moths to visit them to help spread their pollen and make seeds. I also believe that humble-bees are very important for fertilizing the heartsease flower because other bees don’t visit it. From my experiments, I found that bees help fertilize clovers, especially red clover, but only humble-bees visit this flower because other bees can’t reach the nectar. So, if humble-bees disappeared or became rare in England, heartsease and red clover would become rare or disappear. The number of humble-bees depends a lot on field-mice, which destroy their nests. Mr. H. Newman, an expert on humble-bees, thinks that over two-thirds of their nests are destroyed by mice in England. And everyone knows that the number of mice depends a lot on how many cats there are.
