The layers of rock in many countries show a huge amount of wearing away over time! Professor Ramsay measured or estimated the thickness of these layers in different parts of Great Britain, and here’s what he found:  
Palaeozoic layers (not counting volcanic rocks) are 57,154 feet thick.  
Secondary layers are 13,190 feet thick.  
Tertiary layers are 2,240 feet thick.  
All together, that’s 72,584 feet, which is almost thirteen and three-quarters British miles.  

Some of these layers are very thin in England but thousands of feet thick in other parts of Europe. Also, most geologists think there were very long breaks between each layer forming. So, the big pile of sedimentary rocks in Britain doesn’t even fully show how much time passed while they formed—and that must have taken a super long time!  

Observers guess that the Mississippi River drops sediment at a rate of only 600 feet every 100,000 years. This might not be exact, but since fine sediment moves slowly over large areas by ocean currents, building up layers in one spot happens really slowly.  

But how much the rock layers have been worn down over time probably shows best how long a period this is.  

I remember being amazed when I saw volcanic islands shaped by waves, carved into cliffs one or two thousand feet high. The gentle slope of the lava showed how far the hard rock used to stretch out into the ocean.  

Even clearer proof comes from faults—big cracks where rock layers have moved up or down by thousands of feet. Since these cracks formed, the land’s surface has been worn down so much by the sea that you can’t even see these huge movements on the surface anymore.  

For example, the Craven fault is over 30 miles long, and the rock layers along it have moved up or down between 600 and 3,000 feet. Professor Ramsay talks about a drop of 2,300 feet in Anglesea and believes there’s one in Merionethshire as big as 12,000 feet! But in both places, there’s nothing on the surface that shows these huge shifts because the rocks have been smoothed away. Thinking about this feels almost like trying to understand forever.  

Here’s another example: the wearing away of the Weald area. Though it’s small compared to places where 10,000 feet of rock have been worn away, it’s still a great lesson. Standing on the North Downs and looking at the South Downs, you can imagine the big dome of rocks that once covered the Weald not too long ago, since the late Chalk period.  

The distance between the North and South Downs is about 22 miles, and the layers are about 1,100 feet thick on average, according to Professor Ramsay. Some geologists think there might be older rocks under the Weald, which could change these numbers a bit, but not much, especially on the western side.
