When different varieties are crossed, their offspring usually can have babies too. Some people say this shows there must be a big difference between species and varieties, and that what I said before might be wrong. I agree that varieties often mix easily and make fertile babies.

But if we look at varieties that happen naturally, things get confusing. If two varieties don’t mix well and can’t make babies easily, many scientists call them different species. For example, the blue and red pimpernel flowers, and the primrose and cowslip, are seen by some experts as varieties, but they don’t cross well and are often called separate species. So, if we keep arguing like this, we have to say all natural varieties can have babies together.

If we look at varieties made by humans, it’s still unclear. For example, the German Spitz dog mixes more easily with foxes than other dogs do, and some South American dogs don’t mix well with European dogs. This probably means these dogs come from different original species. Still, many domestic varieties, like pigeons or cabbages, look very different but make fertile babies, which is interesting. This is especially true because some species that look very similar can’t have babies together at all. 

There are some reasons why domestic varieties being fertile is not so surprising. First, just looking different on the outside doesn’t mean they can’t have babies together. This is true for species and domestic varieties. Second, some scientists think that after many generations of breeding by humans, any small problems with having babies might disappear. If that’s true, we shouldn’t be surprised to see sterility come and go in similar situations. Last, and most importantly, humans pick animals and plants for how they look or behave, not for how well they can have babies. Humans give these varieties the same food and care, and don’t try to change their natural habits. Nature works slowly over a long time to help each creature survive, and this can also change their ability to have babies in ways we don’t fully understand.

Because humans and nature work differently when choosing traits, it makes sense that the results are sometimes different.

So far, I have talked like all varieties of the same species can have babies together easily. But I think there is proof that some varieties can’t always do this. This proof is as strong as the proof we have that many species can’t have babies together. It even comes from people who usually trust fertility as a way to tell species apart. For example, a scientist named Gartner grew two kinds of maize (corn) in his garden: a dwarf one with yellow seeds and a tall one with red seeds. Even though the plants had separate male and female parts, they didn’t naturally cross. When he helped cross them by hand, only one flower made seeds, and that flower made just five seeds.
