These buds can be copied by grafting or sometimes by seeds. These 'sports' or changes are very rare in nature but happen more often when plants are grown by people. In these cases, the way the parent plant is treated affects a bud or side shoot, not the eggs or pollen. But most scientists think that buds and eggs are basically the same when they first start to form. So, these 'sports' actually support the idea that changes mostly happen because the eggs or pollen were affected by how the parent was treated before reproduction. These examples show that changes are not always connected to the act of reproduction, like some people thought.

Young plants from the same fruit, or animals from the same litter, can be quite different from each other, even though both the babies and the parents seemed to live in the same conditions. This shows that the environment is less important than the rules of how living things grow and inherit traits. If the environment directly caused changes, then all the babies would probably change the same way. It’s hard to say how much changes come from things like heat, water, light, or food. I think these things cause very little direct change in animals, but maybe more in plants. Mr. Buckman’s experiments with plants are helpful here. When almost all plants change in the same way under certain conditions, it looks like the environment caused it. But sometimes very different conditions cause similar changes. Still, small changes might come from the environment, like bigger size from lots of food, color from certain foods or light, and maybe thicker fur from cold weather.

Habit also has a big effect, like when plants flower at different times after moving to a new climate. In animals, habit changes things even more. For example, domestic ducks have lighter wing bones and heavier leg bones compared to wild ducks. This probably happens because domestic ducks fly less and walk more than their wild relatives.

Another example is how cows and goats have bigger udders in countries where people milk them a lot compared to places where they don’t. Also, every domestic animal in some country has droopy ears. Some people think the ears droop because the animals don’t use their ear muscles much since they’re not scared of danger as often, which seems likely.

There are many rules about how changes happen, though we only understand a few of them. One important idea is that growth is connected.

If something changes in a baby animal or plant, it usually causes changes in the adult too. In strange birth defects, very different body parts can be linked in odd ways, as shown in Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire’s big book on the topic. Breeders notice that animals with long legs often have long heads. Some connections are funny, like cats with blue eyes almost always being deaf. Color and health problems often go together in both animals and plants. For example, white sheep and pigs react differently to some plant poisons than colored ones. Hairless dogs often have bad teeth. Animals with long or thick hair sometimes have longer or more horns. Pigeons with feathers on their feet have skin between their outer toes. Pigeons with short beaks have small feet, and those with long beaks have big feet.
