On the Origin of Species.

Introduction.

When I was on the ship H.M.S. 'Beagle' as a naturalist, I noticed some interesting facts about where animals and plants lived in South America. I also saw how the old fossils were connected to the animals living there now. These facts seemed to help explain where different species come from—a big mystery that many smart people have thought about.

When I got back home in 1837, I thought that by carefully collecting and thinking about many different facts, I might figure out this question. After working for five years, I started to guess some answers and wrote short notes. In 1844, I made these notes longer and shared my early ideas. Since then, I have worked steadily on this topic. I’m telling you this so you know I didn’t rush to my conclusions.

My work is almost done, but it will take two or three more years to finish, and my health isn’t very good. So, I was encouraged to publish this shorter version now. I especially decided to do this because Mr. Wallace, who studies nature in the Malay islands, came to almost the same ideas about species as I did. Last year, he sent me a paper about it and asked me to send it to Sir Charles Lyell. Sir Charles sent it to the Linnean Society, and it was published in their journal. Both Sir Charles Lyell and Dr. Hooker, who knew about my work, thought it was a good idea to publish some parts of my writing with Mr. Wallace’s paper.

This shorter version I am publishing now is not perfect. I can’t give all the detailed facts or sources here, so I hope readers will trust that I have been careful. Mistakes might be in it, but I have tried to use only good information. I am only sharing the main ideas I have found, with a few examples, which I hope will be enough. I know I must later publish a full book with all the facts and references, and I plan to do that.

I also know that almost every point I make could be argued against with other facts. To be fair, you need to look at all the facts and arguments on both sides, and that’s not possible in this short summary.

I’m sorry I don’t have space to thank all the many naturalists who helped me, some of whom I don’t even know. But I must say a big thank you to Dr. Hooker, who has helped me a lot for the last fifteen years with his knowledge and good advice.

When thinking about where species come from, it’s possible for a naturalist to look at how living things are related, their development before birth, where they live, and the order of fossils, and come to the idea that species were not created separately but have changed over time from other species, just like different varieties come from one kind.
