The topic of instinct could have been included in the earlier chapters, but I thought it would be easier to talk about it separately. This is especially true because the amazing instinct of the hive-bee making its cells might make some readers doubt my whole idea. First, I want to say that I’m not talking about where the basic mental powers come from, just like I’m not talking about how life itself began. We are only looking at the differences in instincts and other mental abilities among animals in the same group.

I won’t try to give a clear definition of instinct. It’s easy to show that the word “instinct” covers many different mental actions. But everyone knows what it means when we say the cuckoo bird feels the urge to migrate and lay her eggs in other birds’ nests. An action is usually called instinctive if it’s something an animal does without learning it, even when it’s very young, and many animals do it the same way without knowing why. But I could show that not all these ideas about instinct are true for every case. As Pierre Huber said, a bit of judgment or thinking often helps, even in very simple animals.

Frederick Cuvier and some old philosophers have compared instinct to habit. I think this is a good way to understand how an instinctive action feels, but it doesn’t explain where instinct comes from. Many habits are done without us really thinking, sometimes even against what we want. Still, habits can be changed by our will or thinking. Habits often connect to other habits and happen at certain times or when we feel a certain way. Once habits are learned, they often stay the same for life.

There are more ways instincts and habits are alike. Like when you sing a song you know well, one part comes after another in a rhythm. If you get interrupted, you usually have to go back to where you left off. Pierre Huber saw the same thing with a caterpillar making a very complicated hammock. If he took a caterpillar that had finished the sixth step of building and put it in a hammock only finished to the third step, the caterpillar would just redo steps four, five, and six. But if he put a caterpillar in a hammock already finished to the sixth step, the caterpillar got confused and tried to start again from step three, trying to finish what was already done. 

If a habit becomes inherited—passed down from parents to babies—it can look just like an instinct. For example, if Mozart had played the piano without any practice at all when he was three years old, you could say he did it instinctively. But it would be wrong to think most instincts come from habits learned in one generation and passed on to the next. We can clearly see that the amazing instincts of hive-bees and many ants could not have started this way.
