Fewer experiments have been done with animals than with plants. If we trust how animals are grouped, and if animal groups are as different as plant groups, then animals that are more different can probably be crossed more easily than plants. But I think animal hybrids usually can’t have babies. I’m not sure if there’s any clear proof of a hybrid animal that can have babies perfectly.

We should remember that few animals breed well in captivity, so not many tests have been fair. For example, canaries have been crossed with nine other types of finches, but since those finches don’t breed well in captivity, we can’t expect the hybrids to be fully fertile. Also, when hybrid animals that are more fertile have babies, I don’t know any case where two different families of the same hybrid were raised at the same time to avoid inbreeding problems. Usually, brothers and sisters are bred together, which breeders say not to do. So, it’s not surprising if the hybrids become more sterile over time. If we did this with any pure animal that tends to be less fertile, the breed would disappear in a few generations.

I don’t know any fully proven cases of perfectly fertile hybrid animals, but I think some hybrids between certain deer and pheasants are fully fertile. Also, hybrids between common and Chinese geese, which are very different and usually placed in different groups, have often bred with either parent type in this country. In one case, a man named Mr. Eyton raised two hybrid geese from the same parents but different hatches, and those two birds had eight hybrid babies. In India, these cross-bred geese seem to be even more fertile. Two experts, Mr. Blyth and Capt. Hutton, say whole flocks of these mixed geese are kept there for profit, and since pure parent species don’t exist there, the hybrids must be very fertile.

There is an idea from a scientist named Pallas that many of our domestic animals come from two or more original species that mixed by breeding together. If this is true, the original species must have made fully fertile hybrids at first, or the hybrids became fertile after many generations of being raised by humans. I think the second option is more likely, even though there’s no direct proof. For example, dogs probably came from several wild kinds, but now all domestic dogs can breed together well, except some native South American dogs. I doubt the original wild species would have easily bred and made fully fertile hybrids at first. Also, European and Indian cattle can breed together well, but experts think they are different species. So, if many domestic animals come from different species, we either have to stop believing that different species almost never make fertile babies, or we have to think that sterility can be changed by being raised by humans.
