All the changed offspring from a common species, which belongs to a big group, will usually share the same good traits that helped their parent survive. Because of this, they will often increase in number and also start to become different from each other. This is shown in the diagram by the many branches growing out from point (A).

The newer, more improved branches will probably take over and replace the older, less improved ones. This is shown in the diagram by some of the lower branches not reaching the top lines. Sometimes, the changes might happen only in one line, without increasing the number of descendants, but with more differences in each generation. This would look like keeping only one branch, from a1 to a10, in the diagram. For example, the English race-horse and English pointer have slowly changed from their original kinds, but haven’t created new branches or races.

After ten thousand generations, species (A) is thought to have made three forms: a10, f10, and m10. These have slowly become quite different from each other and from their original parent. If the changes shown by each step in the diagram are very small, these three forms might still be just varieties or maybe sub-species. But if the changes are bigger or happen more often, these forms could become full species. The diagram shows how small differences in varieties can grow into big differences that define species. If this process keeps going for more generations, as the diagram shows, we get eight species (a14 to m14), all coming from (A). This is how species multiply and new groups are formed.

In a big group, more than one species can change. In the diagram, a second species (I) also changes, making two varieties (w10 and z10) or maybe two species after ten thousand generations, depending on how big the changes are. After fourteen thousand generations, six new species (n14 to z14) are made. Usually, the species that are already very different will make the most changed descendants because they can fill new places in nature. That’s why the diagram shows species (A) and (I) as the ones that change a lot and create new varieties and species. The other nine species in the original group might stay the same for a long time, which is shown by dotted lines that don’t go up far in the diagram.

But during this whole process, extinction also plays a big role. In any place with many living things, natural selection means that the better-adapted forms will have an advantage and will replace and kill off their ancestors and earlier kinds. This competition is usually strongest between forms that are very similar in habits, body, and structure.
