This idea about migration helps us understand why ocean islands have only a few kinds of animals, but many of these animals are unique to those islands. We can see why animals that can't cross big oceans, like frogs and land mammals, aren’t found on ocean islands. But bats, which can fly long distances, are often found on islands far from any continent. The fact that bats live on these islands but other mammals don’t can’t be explained by the idea that all animals were created separately.

When we find similar species in two different places, it means, according to the idea of evolution, that they both came from the same ancestors who lived in both places long ago. Usually, when many closely related species live in two areas, there are also some species that are exactly the same in both places. Where there are many similar but different species, there are also many forms and varieties that are hard to tell apart. It’s a general rule that the animals and plants in an area are related to those in the nearest place where they could have come from. We see this in places like the Galapagos Islands, where the plants and animals are very similar to those on the nearby American mainland. The same is true for islands near Africa. These facts don’t make sense if we think all species were created independently.

All living things from the past and present form one big natural system. Groups fit inside bigger groups, and extinct groups often connect living groups. This makes sense if we think about natural selection, with species changing and some dying out. This also explains why species and groups within a class are connected in complicated ways. We understand why some body features are better for grouping species than others—features that help the animal live aren’t always good for classification. Sometimes, features that don’t help the animal, like small leftover parts, are very useful to classify species. Embryo features are the most helpful for classification. The real connections between living things come from shared ancestors. The natural system is like a family tree, and we figure out these family lines by looking at the most lasting features, even if they don’t seem very important for survival.

The fact that humans’ hands, bats’ wings, porpoises’ fins, and horses’ legs all have the same bone structure makes sense if we think they all come from a common ancestor with small changes over time. The same number of neck bones in giraffes and elephants and many other examples also make sense this way. Similar patterns in body parts, like the wing and leg of a bat or the jaws and legs of a crab, or parts of a flower, show how these parts slowly changed from the same ancestor. Because changes don’t always happen early in life, and are passed on at the same stage, embryos of mammals, birds, reptiles, and fish look very similar but adults look very different. We don’t need to be amazed that embryos of animals that breathe air have gill slits and blood vessels that look like those of fish, which use gills to breathe underwater.
