Natural selection can’t create changes in one species just to help another species. But all the time, one species uses the features of another to its own advantage. Sometimes, natural selection does make body parts that can hurt other species, like the fangs of a snake or the egg-laying tool of a certain insect that puts eggs inside other insects. If it was ever proven that a part of one species was made only to help another species, my theory would be wrong because natural selection can’t do that. Some books say things like this, but I haven’t found any strong proof. For example, the rattlesnake has poison fangs to protect itself and catch prey, but some people think the rattlesnake’s rattle warns its prey to escape, which doesn’t make sense to me. I don’t have space to talk about this or other similar ideas here.

Natural selection will never make something that harms the creature itself because it only works for the creature’s own good. No body part is made to cause pain or harm to its owner. If you balance the good and bad effects of each part, you’ll see it mostly helps the creature. Over time, if a part becomes harmful, it will change, or the species will die out — many have already disappeared.

Natural selection tries to make each living thing as good as or a little better than the other living things it competes with in its home. This is the level of “perfection” we see in nature. For example, animals and plants native to New Zealand are well suited to each other, but they are quickly being outcompeted by species brought from Europe. Natural selection doesn’t create perfect creatures, and we don’t always find perfect designs in nature. Even the eye, which is very complex, doesn’t fix light perfectly. While there are many amazing designs in nature, some are less than perfect. Take the sting of a wasp or bee: when used on some animals, it can’t be pulled out because of tiny barbs, which causes the insect to die by tearing out its own insides.

If we think about the bee’s sting as something that started long ago as a boring and serrated tool (like in many related insects), and then changed but not completely improved for stinging, with poison that first caused small growths but later became stronger, we can understand why stinging sometimes kills the insect. But if stinging helps the group survive overall, natural selection will keep it, even if it means some individual insects die.
