What we want to show is that when many species of a group have been made, usually many more are still being made. This idea is true.

There are other interesting connections between species in big groups and the different types recorded within them. We know there’s no perfect way to tell species and clear varieties apart. When there aren’t any in-between forms found, scientists have to decide based on how different they are, guessing if the difference is enough to call one or both species. So, how different they are is very important in deciding if two forms are species or just varieties. Fries said this about plants, and Westwood said it about insects: in big groups, species often look very similar. I tried to check this by using average numbers, and my results support this idea. I also asked some smart and experienced people, and they agree. So, species in big groups are more like varieties than species in smaller groups. Or you could say that in big groups, where many new varieties or early species are being made, many existing species still look a lot like varieties because they don’t differ much.

Also, species in big groups relate to each other like varieties of one species do. No scientist says all species in a group are equally different; they can usually be split into smaller groups. Fries pointed out that small groups of species often gather around certain main species like moons around a planet. And varieties are just groups of forms that are connected in different ways and gather around their parent species. Of course, there is one big difference between varieties and species: varieties differ less from each other and their parent species than species do within the same group. But when we talk about the idea called Divergence of Character, we will see how small differences between varieties can grow into bigger differences between species.

There’s one more thing worth mentioning. Varieties usually live in smaller areas. This is almost obvious because if a variety lived in a bigger area than its parent species, their names would need to be switched. Also, species that are very similar to others, and so look like varieties, often live in smaller areas too. For example, Mr. H. C. Watson pointed out 63 plant species in a London plant list that he thinks are so close to other species they might not really be different. These 63 species are found in about 6.9 provinces in Great Britain on average. In the same list, 53 known varieties are found in about 7.7 provinces, while the species they belong to are found in about 14.3 provinces. So, the known varieties and those very similar species both have pretty small areas where they live.
