Nature has almost made it hard to find the in-between forms that connect different species.

From what was said before, it’s clear that the fossil record is very incomplete. But if we only look at one rock layer, it’s harder to understand why we don’t find many small changes linking species that lived at the start and end of that layer. Sometimes the same species shows differences in the top and bottom parts of one layer, but those cases are rare and can be ignored here. Even though each layer took a long time to form, I can think of some reasons why it might not show a smooth series of changes between species, but I’m not sure how important these reasons really are.

Each layer might cover a long time, but probably not as long as it takes for one species to change into another. Some experts, like Bronn and Woodward, think that layers last two or three times longer than species do. But it’s really hard to be sure about this. When we find a species first appearing in the middle of a layer, it’s risky to say it didn’t live somewhere else before. Also, when a species disappears before the top of the layer is formed, it’s risky to say it went extinct then. We forget that Europe is a small part of the world, and that matching up layers from different parts of Europe isn’t perfect.

Sea animals probably moved around a lot because of changes in climate and other factors. When a species shows up in a layer, it probably just moved into that area then. For example, some species appeared earlier in North America than in Europe, which suggests they traveled from America to Europe. In recent deposits around the world, some species that are still alive today were common in the fossil layer but died out nearby, or some live nearby now but are rare or missing in the layer. This shows how much animals moved during the Ice Age, which was only part of one geological period. Also, during that time, there were big changes in land levels, climate, and lots of time passed.  

It’s unlikely that sediments kept forming in the same place during the whole Ice Age. For example, near the Mississippi River mouth, sediments probably didn’t form underwater the whole time because big changes happened in America’s geography. When those shallow water layers from the Ice Age rise up, fossils will appear and disappear at different levels because animals moved and the geography changed. In the future, a scientist might wrongly think that the fossils lived for less time than the Ice Age, when actually they lived for much longer, from before the Ice Age until now.
