Chickens aren’t completely fearless, but they mainly only get scared of dogs and cats. If the hen makes a special warning sound, the young turkeys will run and hide in the grass or bushes. This is probably an old instinct, like wild birds do, to let their mother fly away safely. But this doesn’t really help domestic chickens anymore because mother hens can barely fly now.

So, we can guess that some natural instincts have been lost over time, while new habits have been learned. This happened partly because of repeated behavior and partly because humans bred chickens for certain traits over many generations. Sometimes just getting used to something changed their instincts, and other times breeding for certain behaviors made the change. Most likely, it’s a mix of both habit and selective breeding.

To understand how instincts change in nature, we can look at some examples. I will talk about three: the cuckoo laying eggs in other birds’ nests, some ants making slaves, and bees building combs. The last two are often seen as amazing instincts by scientists.

People now agree that the cuckoo lays eggs in other birds’ nests because she doesn’t lay eggs every day, but every two or three days. If she made her own nest, she would have eggs and babies of different ages at once, which would be hard to take care of. Also, she has to migrate early, and the male would have to feed the first babies alone. The American cuckoo, however, makes her own nest and has young birds of different ages together. Some say the American cuckoo sometimes lays eggs in other birds’ nests, but experts say this is wrong.

Now imagine the ancestor of the European cuckoo was like the American one but sometimes laid eggs in other birds’ nests. If this helped the cuckoo’s babies survive better or grow stronger because another bird raised them, then those cuckoos would have an advantage. Their babies might also start doing the same thing, laying eggs in other nests, and so the habit would spread.

Over time, this could explain how the cuckoo’s strange habit started. Some experts say that European cuckoos still show some care for their own young.

It’s not unusual for some birds to lay eggs in the nests of other birds, even of different species. This might explain a weird instinct in ostriches, which are related to these birds.
