Revolutum made a plant that, according to him, I never saw happen naturally when it fertilized itself. So, here we have perfect, or even better than usual, fertility in a first cross between two different species.

This example with Crinum reminds me of something really strange. Some individual plants, like certain Lobelia species and all Hippeastrum species, can be fertilized much easier by pollen from a different species than by their own pollen. These plants can make seeds with pollen from another species but can't do it with their own pollen, even though their own pollen works fine on other species. So, some plants can actually make hybrids more easily than they can fertilize themselves!

For example, a Hippeastrum aulicum bulb made four flowers. Three were fertilized with their own pollen, and the fourth was fertilized with pollen from a hybrid of three other species. The first three flowers stopped growing and died, but the one fertilized by the hybrid pollen grew strong, made seeds, and those seeds grew well. Mr. Herbert told me in 1839 that he tried this for five years and kept getting the same result. Other scientists also found this with Hippeastrum and some other plants like Lobelia, Passiflora, and Verbascum.

Even though these plants looked healthy and their pollen and ovules worked fine with other species, they didn’t work well with their own pollen. This shows that plants can be in an unnatural state, and small, mysterious reasons can affect how fertile they are when crossed compared to fertilizing themselves.

Gardeners’ practical experiments, even if not perfectly scientific, are worth mentioning. It’s well-known that species like Pelargonium, Fuchsia, Calceolaria, Petunia, and Rhododendron have been crossed in very complicated ways, and many of these hybrids make seeds easily.

For example, Herbert said a hybrid from Calceolaria integrifolia and plantaginea, which are very different plants, "reproduced itself as perfectly as if it were a natural species from Chile." I looked into how fertile some complex Rhododendron crosses are, and I was told many of them are fully fertile. Mr. C. Noble said he grows plants from a hybrid between Rhododendron Ponticum and Catawbiense, and it "makes seeds as easily as you can imagine." If hybrids really lost fertility with each new generation, as Gartner thought, gardeners would definitely know about it.

Gardeners grow big groups of the same hybrids, and these plants are treated well because insects let the same hybrid plants cross with each other freely. This stops the bad effects of close inbreeding. Anyone can see how well insects help by looking at flowers of the more sterile hybrid rhododendrons that don’t make pollen. Their stigmas have lots of pollen brought from other flowers by insects.
