The worker ants of the Myrmica species don’t have even the simplest eyes called ocelli, but the male and female ants of this group do have well-developed ocelli.

Here’s another example: I expected to find small differences in important body parts between the different types of worker ants in the same species. So, I gladly accepted many samples from one nest of the driver ant (Anomma) from West Africa, thanks to Mr. F. Smith. To help you understand how different these workers were, imagine a group of builders where some are 5 feet 4 inches tall and some are 16 feet tall. But the taller ones don’t just have bigger bodies—they have heads four times bigger and jaws almost five times bigger than the smaller ones.

The jaws of these ants were also very different in shape, number, and form of teeth depending on their size. The important thing is that while the workers come in different sizes, their jaws gradually change between sizes, blending into each other. I’m sure about this because Mr. Lubbock made drawings of the jaws from workers of different sizes using a special camera.

From this, I believe natural selection works on the parent ants to create species that produce worker ants either all large with one type of jaw, all small with a very different jaw, or even two different kinds of workers at the same time, each with their own size and jaw type. First, a range of sizes and jaws would form, like with the driver ants, and then the most useful types would become more common because the parents that made them survived better, until no workers with in-between features were made.

So, I think the amazing fact that two very different groups of sterile worker ants can live in the same nest, both very different from each other and from their parents, came about this way. This is useful for a community of insects, just like how dividing jobs helps people. Ants don’t learn or use tools like humans; they work by instincts and inherited body parts. So, for them to have a perfect division of jobs, the workers must be sterile. If they could have babies, their instincts and bodies would mix and not stay specialized. Nature, I believe, made this special division of work in ants through natural selection. 

I admit, even though I believe strongly in natural selection, I never thought it could work so well until I saw these sterile worker ants. That’s why I explained this example, even if it’s a bit long, to show how powerful natural selection is. This example is the biggest challenge my theory has faced. It’s interesting because it shows that animals, like plants, can change a lot in their body parts by small, accidental changes that help them, without learning or habits being involved. Since sterile workers don’t have babies, their habits can’t change the traits of the parent ants, who are the only ones having offspring. I’m surprised no one has used this clear example of sterile insects to argue against Lamarck’s idea that habits can change animals over time.
