Big areas of land, even though they seem connected now, have often been broken up into smaller pieces in the past because of changes in sea level. This means that isolation, or being separated, has helped species change and develop in some way.

I think that while small isolated places might be good for creating new species, changes usually happen faster in big areas. Also, new species that start in big areas tend to be stronger and can spread out more, making even more new species. These species play a big role in how life changes over time.

We can understand some facts better with this idea, like how Australia, a smaller continent, has produced unique plants and animals before and still does more than the big continents of Europe and Asia. Also, animals and plants from big continents often become common on islands. On small islands, life is less competitive, so species don’t change or disappear as quickly. For example, the plants on Madeira look like old European plants that don’t exist anymore.

Freshwater areas, like lakes and rivers, are small compared to the sea or land. Because of this, there is less competition in freshwater, so new species form slowly and old ones disappear slowly. That’s why we find some very unusual fish and animals there, like the platypus and lungfish, which are like “living fossils” because they have survived a long time by living in isolated areas with less competition.

To sum up, the best places for new species to form and survive for a long time are big continents that have changed a lot over time, sometimes breaking into islands and then joining back again. When continents break into islands, groups of animals get separated and start to change in different ways. When the islands come back together, the strongest versions spread out and weaker ones disappear. This cycle helps natural selection work and creates new species.

I agree that natural selection happens very slowly. It only works when there’s room for some species to do better than others and take over new places in nature.
