We can understand these facts based on the idea that animals often go back to traits from their ancestors, if all domestic pigeons come from the rock-pigeon. But if we don’t believe this, we have to accept one of two unlikely ideas. 

First, all the original wild types of pigeons were colored and marked just like the rock-pigeon, even though no other wild species looks like that. So, each breed would have a natural habit of going back to those same colors and marks. 

Or second, each breed, even the purest ones, must have mixed with rock-pigeons within the last 12 to 20 generations. This is because we don’t know of any cases where traits from much older ancestors suddenly show up again. 

If a breed crosses with another breed only once, the traits from that crossing will slowly fade over generations. But if a breed hasn’t crossed with another type, and both parents tend to show a trait lost many generations ago, this trait can stay strong for many generations. People often mix up these two different cases when talking about inheritance.

Also, hybrids (mixed pigeons) from all domestic breeds can have babies that can also have babies without any problems. I know this because I watched it happen with very different breeds.

It’s hard, maybe impossible, to find an example where offspring from two very different animal species can have babies that are fully fertile. Some people think that domestic animals lose the problem of infertility over time. For example, with dogs, this might be true for closely related species, but no solid experiments prove it. 

But to say that species as different as carriers, tumblers, pouters, and fantails can all have fully fertile babies together is, in my opinion, too risky to believe.

For these reasons—like how unlikely it is that humans made seven or eight wild species breed freely, how these supposed species don’t exist in the wild, and how their traits are weird compared to other pigeons but very similar to rock-pigeons; how the blue color and marks show up in all breeds, even pure ones; and how mixed pigeons can have babies without problems—I am sure all domestic pigeons come from the rock-pigeon and its nearby types.

Supporting this idea, first, the rock-pigeon has been tamed in Europe and India, and it behaves and looks like all domestic pigeons in many ways. 

Second, even though some pigeons like the English carrier or short-faced tumbler look very different from the rock-pigeon, when we look at different sub-breeds, especially from far places, we can see a smooth range of features between the most different types.

Third, the traits that mostly make each breed unique—like the wattle and beak length of the carrier, the short beak of the tumbler, or the number of tail feathers in the fantail—can change a lot within each breed. We will explain why this happens when we talk about selection.
