This case is not hard to understand. A hooked seed could get to an island in different ways. Then the plant might change a little but still keep its hooked seeds. This would create a unique species found only there, with a useless part like some tiny, shriveled wings on beetles living on islands.

Also, islands often have trees or bushes from groups that usually only have small plants elsewhere. Trees usually grow in limited places. So, trees probably don’t travel far to reach remote islands. But a small plant, even if it can’t compete with big trees, can grow taller on an island if it only has to compete with other small plants. Natural selection would help these small plants get taller and turn into bushes or even trees over time.

About whole groups of animals missing on ocean islands, Bory St. Vincent noticed that frogs, toads, and newts are never found on many ocean islands. I checked this and found it true. Someone told me there might be frogs in the mountains of New Zealand, but if true, it could be because of glaciers moving them there. These amphibians aren’t on ocean islands not because of the islands’ conditions—they would do well there. Frogs introduced to some islands have even become pests. But since frogs and their eggs die in saltwater, it’s hard for them to cross the ocean, which explains why they aren’t found on these islands. On the other hand, it’s hard to explain why they wouldn’t just be created there if creation was the reason.

Mammals are another example. I looked through old travel records but haven’t found any clear case of land mammals (except pets kept by people) living on islands more than 300 miles from a big continent. Some closer islands also don’t have land mammals. The Falkland Islands have a fox-like animal, but these islands aren’t truly oceanic because they are on a shallow area connected to the mainland. Also, icebergs might have carried foxes there before.

Small islands can support small mammals if they’re near a continent. Many small islands have small land animals that came from nearby lands and have grown in number. It can’t be said that mammals didn’t have enough time to appear on volcanic islands because many are very old. Other kinds of animals have unique species on these islands, and mammals usually appear and disappear faster than lower animals on continents. While land mammals don’t live on ocean islands, flying mammals like bats do. New Zealand has two bats found nowhere else. Other islands like Norfolk, Viti, Bonin, Caroline, Marianne, and Mauritius also have their own unique bats.
