It would be really strange if people didn’t pay attention to breeding, because it’s clear that good and bad traits get passed down.

Today, top breeders carefully choose animals to create new groups that are better than others in the country. But for what we’re talking about, there’s another kind of selection called Unconscious Selection. This happens when people just try to have and breed from the best animals they can find, without planning to change the breed on purpose. For example, someone who keeps hunting dogs called pointers will get the best dogs and breed from them, but they don’t try to change the breed forever. Still, I’m sure that if this goes on for many years, the breed would slowly get better or change, just like farmers Bakewell and Collins did with their cattle by doing this more carefully. These slow changes are hard to notice unless someone made careful records or pictures a long time ago. Sometimes, though, you can find animals that haven’t changed much in less developed areas where people didn’t try to improve the breed. For example, King Charles’s spaniel has probably changed a lot since his time. Some experts believe the setter dog came from the spaniel and changed slowly over time. We also know the English pointer has changed a lot in the last hundred years, mostly because it was mixed with fox-hounds. What matters here is that these changes happened slowly and without people really trying to make them happen. Even though the old Spanish pointer came from Spain, a man named Mr. Borrow said he never saw a dog in Spain like the English pointer we have now.

In a similar way, by picking the best horses and training them well, English racehorses have become faster and bigger than their original Arab ancestors. So much so that the Arab horses get a weight advantage in races. People like Lord Spencer have shown how English cows have become heavier and grow up faster compared to older types. By looking at old books about pigeons, we can see how different breeds have slowly changed over time and become very different from wild rock-pigeons.

Youatt gives a good example of what happens when this kind of selection happens without people realizing it. Two farmers, Mr. Buckley and Mr. Burgess, have been breeding Leicester sheep from the same original flock for over fifty years. Neither of them ever mixed in other sheep, but their sheep look so different now that they seem like two completely different types. Even if some very wild people never thought about how traits get passed down, if they had an animal that was really useful, they would keep it safe during hard times like famines. Those good animals would have more babies than the weaker ones, so even then, a kind of unconscious selection would be happening.
