If we forget for a moment that every species tends to grow a lot, and that there is always something stopping this growth, even if we don’t usually notice it, then we won’t understand how nature works. Only when we can clearly explain why one species has more individuals than another, or why some species can live in a new country while others can’t, will it make sense why some species disappear.

One amazing thing about fossils is that the types of life seem to change almost at the same time all over the world. For example, the European Chalk formation can be found in many faraway places with very different climates, like North America, South America, Tierra del Fuego, the Cape of Good Hope, and India. Even though the exact same species aren’t found everywhere, the fossils belong to the same families and groups, and sometimes even have tiny details that look alike.

Also, some other types of fossils that aren’t found in Europe’s Chalk but appear in layers above or below it, are also missing in those far places. This pattern is seen in many old rock layers in Russia, Western Europe, and North America, and also in more recent layers in Europe and North America. Even if we ignore the few species found both in the Old World and New World, the general pattern in how life changed over time is clear, and scientists can match these layers across the world.

However, these findings mostly relate to sea creatures from different places. We don’t have enough information to know if land and freshwater animals changed in the same way everywhere. It’s possible they didn’t. For example, some giant animals from South America found alongside sea shells might seem very strange if we didn’t know when they lived, but since they lived with other known animals, we can guess when they existed.

When scientists say marine life changed around the world at the same time, they don’t mean it happened exactly at the same year or even in a very precise time period. For instance, if we compare sea animals living in Europe today with those living there during a very old time called the Pleistocene, and then compare both groups with animals in South America or Australia now, even experts would find it hard to say which group they are more similar to. Also, some experts think that animals living now in the United States are more like those that lived in Europe long ago than like animals living in the U.S. today. This means that fossils found today in North America might one day be matched with older European fossils.
