Domestic instincts, which are habits animals have at home, are not as fixed as natural instincts. They have been shaped by less strict selection and passed down for a much shorter time, in less stable living conditions.

You can see how strong these domestic instincts are and how they mix together when different dog breeds are crossed. For example, crossing a bulldog with greyhounds has made greyhounds more brave and stubborn for many generations. Crossing greyhounds with shepherd dogs has made some shepherd dogs want to chase hares. These mixed instincts are like natural instincts, which also blend and show traits from both parents for a long time. For instance, a dog with a wolf great-grandfather only showed this wild side by not coming straight to its owner when called.

Some people say domestic instincts come only from habits animals learn over time, but I don’t think that’s true. No one could teach a tumbler-pigeon to tumble because young pigeons do it naturally, even if they’ve never seen it before. Probably one pigeon started doing it by chance, and people bred the best tumblers over many generations to get the birds we see now. Near Glasgow, there are pigeons that tumble so much they can’t even fly straight.

It’s also unlikely someone trained a dog to point unless a dog already showed a little natural skill for it. I once saw a terrier do this. Once a dog shows this ability, careful breeding and training can make it stronger over generations. Even now, people pick dogs that hunt best without trying to improve the breed. Sometimes, just habit is enough. Wild rabbits are hard to tame, but tame rabbits are very calm. We don’t think rabbits were bred for tameness; their change from wild to tame is probably just from living in close confinement for a long time.

Natural instincts can disappear when animals are domesticated. For example, some chickens hardly ever want to sit on their eggs anymore.

Because we see them all the time, we don’t notice how much living with us has changed animals’ minds. Dogs seem to naturally love humans. Wild animals like wolves, foxes, and wild cats often attack farm animals when tamed. Dogs brought from places where people don’t keep farm animals still try to attack them. But dogs raised in our world rarely need to be taught not to attack chickens, sheep, or pigs. If they do attack, they’re punished or destroyed, so habit and some breeding have helped make dogs calmer. On the other hand, young chickens have lost their fear of dogs and cats simply from habit, even though wild birds like pheasants still fear them naturally, even when raised by a hen.
