When a duck suddenly comes out of a pond full of duck-weed, I have twice seen some of these tiny plants stuck to its back. Once, while moving a bit of duck-weed from one aquarium to another, I accidentally moved fresh-water shells from one tank to the other too. But there’s another way this can happen: I hung a duck’s feet in an aquarium where many baby fresh-water shells were hatching. I saw that lots of tiny, just-hatched shells crawled onto the duck’s feet and held on so tightly that when I took the feet out of the water, they didn’t fall off. Older shells would drop off by themselves though. These tiny shells, even though they live in water, could survive on the duck’s feet in damp air for 12 to 20 hours. In that time, a duck or heron could fly 600 to 700 miles and would probably land on a pond or river if blown to an ocean island or any faraway place. Sir Charles Lyell also told me that a water beetle called Dyticus was caught with a fresh-water shell stuck to it. Another water beetle, a Colymbetes, once flew onto the ship ‘Beagle’ when it was 45 miles away from land. Who knows how far it could have flown with a good wind?

When it comes to plants, it’s well known that many fresh-water and marsh plants live in huge areas, across continents and even on faraway ocean islands. Alph. de Candolle pointed out that big groups of land plants, which only have a few water plants, show this clearly. The water plants seem to spread out over wide areas very easily. I think this happens because of good ways of spreading. I’ve mentioned before that sometimes, though not often, dirt sticks to birds’ feet and beaks.

Wading birds, which hang out in muddy pond edges, are most likely to have muddy feet when suddenly scared. These birds travel the most and are sometimes found on very remote and empty islands in the ocean. They probably don’t land on the sea itself, so the mud on their feet wouldn’t wash off. When they land, they usually fly to their usual fresh-water homes. I don’t think plant experts realize how full of seeds pond mud really is. I did some tests but will only share one here: in February, I took three spoonfuls of mud from three spots under water at the edge of a small pond. The dry mud weighed only 6 3/4 ounces. I kept it covered in my room for six months and pulled up and counted each plant that grew. The plants were many kinds and there were 537 in total! And all that mud fit in a breakfast cup! Because of this, I think it would be very strange if water birds didn’t carry fresh-water plant seeds long distances. This explains why these plants spread so much. The same might happen with eggs of some small fresh-water animals.

Other ways that we don’t know about probably help too. I said fresh-water fish eat some seeds, though they spit out many others after swallowing them. Even small fish eat seeds of medium size, like those of yellow water-lilies and Potamogeton. Herons and other birds have been eating fish for centuries. Then they fly to other waters or get blown across the sea. We know seeds can still grow after being spit out many hours later in bird pellets or droppings. When I saw how big the seeds of the water-lily Nelumbium were, and thought about Alph. de Candolle’s notes on it, I thought it must be a mystery how it spreads. But Audubon said he found seeds of the big southern water-lily (probably Nelumbium luteum) in a heron’s stomach. I don’t know for sure, but I think a heron flying to another pond and eating fish would probably spit out a pellet with Nelumbium seeds that weren’t digested. Or the bird might drop the seeds while feeding its young, just like fish are sometimes dropped.
