I can understand why the fastest and leanest wolves would have the best chance to survive. They would be the ones to live and have babies, as long as they were strong enough to catch their prey at some time during the year. This is no different from how people can make greyhounds faster by picking the best ones to breed, whether they do it on purpose or just by keeping the fastest dogs.

Even if the number of animals wolves hunt doesn’t change, a wolf cub might be born with a natural habit to chase certain kinds of animals. This isn’t surprising because we see big differences in the behaviors of pets. For example, one cat might like catching rats, another likes mice; one might bring home birds, another rabbits, and another hunts in marshy areas for birds like woodcocks. The habit of catching rats instead of mice can be passed down from parent to kitten. If a small change in habit or body helped a wolf survive better, it would have a better chance to live and have babies. Some of its pups would probably have the same habits or traits. Over time, this could create a new kind of wolf that might replace or live alongside the original type.

Also, wolves living in mountains and those living in lowlands would have to hunt different prey. Because of this, the wolves best suited for each place would survive and slowly form two different types. These two types might mix when they meet, and we will talk more about mixing later. For example, in the Catskill Mountains in the U.S., there are two types of wolves: one is slim like a greyhound and hunts deer, the other is bigger with shorter legs and often attacks sheep.

Now, let’s look at a more complicated example. Some plants produce a sweet juice to get rid of bad stuff in their sap. This juice comes from special glands on parts of the plant like leaves. Even though there isn’t much juice, insects really like it. Imagine if a flower made a little sweet juice inside its petals. Insects looking for this nectar would get covered in pollen and carry it from one flower to another. This would help flowers from different plants cross-pollinate. Cross-pollination usually makes strong seedlings, which are more likely to grow well and survive.

Some seedlings would probably inherit the ability to make nectar. Flowers with bigger nectar glands that make more nectar would be visited more by insects and be pollinated more often. These flowers would have an advantage over time. Also, flowers with stamens and pistils placed in a way that matches the size and habits of the visiting insects would be more successful and selected for.

We could also think about insects visiting flowers to collect pollen instead of nectar. Pollen is meant for fertilizing, so losing it seems like a problem for the plant. But if some pollen is carried by these insects from flower to flower, even if most pollen is eaten, it could still help the plant. Flowers that made more pollen and had bigger anthers would be more likely to be successful and selected over time.
