Even though the Old and New Worlds have similar conditions, their plants and animals are very different!

If we look at big areas in the southern half of the world, like parts of Australia, South Africa, and western South America between 25 and 35 degrees latitude, we see that these places are very similar in many ways. But the animals and plants there are nothing alike. Also, animals and plants in South America south of 35 degrees latitude are much more similar to those north of 25 degrees, even though the climates are quite different. They are way more related to each other than to those in Australia or Africa with almost the same climate. The same is true for sea creatures.

Another important fact is that barriers, or things that stop animals and plants from moving freely, are closely linked to how different life is in different places. We see this in how different the animals and plants are between the New and Old Worlds, except in the far north where the land almost connects. There, animals can move more easily, so life is more similar. The same happens with Australia, Africa, and South America—they are very isolated from each other, so their animals and plants are very different. Even inside a single continent, big mountains, deserts, or rivers can cause differences in the plants and animals on each side. But these differences are smaller than those between continents because mountains and deserts aren’t as hard to cross or as old as oceans.

In the ocean, the same rule applies. The animals living along the east and west coasts of South and Central America are very different, with almost no fish, shells, or crabs living in both places. The only thing between them is the narrow but impossible-to-cross Panama land bridge. West of America, there’s a huge open ocean with no islands to stop at, which is another kind of barrier. Beyond that, in the eastern Pacific islands, there’s a completely different set of sea animals. So, three different groups of sea animals live near each other, in similar climates, but they are totally different because they are separated by land or open ocean barriers. On the other hand, going further west from the eastern Pacific islands, there are many islands to stop at, and no big barriers until you reach Africa. Because of this, sea animals there are not clearly different from one place to another. Even though almost no sea creatures live in both the Americas and the eastern Pacific islands, many fish and shells live both in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, including near Africa.

A third important fact, which is partly included in what I said before, is that plants and animals on the same continent or in the same sea are related, even if the exact species are different in different places.

This is a very general rule, and you can see it many times on every continent. When traveling from north to south, for example, you notice that groups of animals and plants change one after another. Each group is different, but they are all related.
