In most cases, for animals that usually mate with others of their kind or often mix with different groups, I think that as they slowly change over time, the individuals stay pretty similar because they keep mixing. This means many animals change together at the same time, and the changes don’t come from just one parent. For example, English racehorses are a little different from other horses, but their special qualities didn’t come from just one pair. Instead, many horses were carefully chosen and trained over many generations to get better.

Before I talk about the three main tricky facts about the idea that all species started in one place, I need to say a bit about how animals and plants spread out.

How they spread out has been explained well by Sir C. Lyell and others. I’ll just give a quick summary of the important points. Changes in climate must have had a big effect on movement. A place that was easy to cross before might be impossible now because of the weather. Also, changes in land height matter a lot. For example, a narrow strip of land now separates two sea animal groups. If this strip was once underwater, the two groups could mix. Sometimes land that is now underwater used to connect islands or even continents, letting animals and plants move between them. Geologists agree that big changes in land height have happened while current species have been around.

Edward Forbes said that all the islands in the Atlantic were once connected to Europe or Africa, and Europe was also connected to America. Other scientists have suggested something similar, connecting almost every island to a mainland. If Forbes is right, then almost no island has been separate from a continent recently. This idea would solve many problems about how the same species live far apart. But we don’t have enough proof that such huge land changes happened recently. I believe there is lots of evidence for big up-and-down movements of land, but not for huge moves that joined continents and islands continuously in recent times. I agree that many islands now under the sea probably helped plants and animals move by acting as stop points. In coral oceans, these sunken islands are marked by rings of coral called atolls.

When we accept, as I think we will, that each species started in one place, and learn more about how species spread, we will be better able to guess how land looked in the past. But I don’t think it will ever be proven that separated continents were joined for a long time recently, or that they were connected to many ocean islands. Some facts, like the big differences in sea animals on opposite sides of continents, the connection between ancient and current species in some places, and the link between where mammals live and sea depth, all seem to go against the idea of huge land shifts recently, like Forbes and his followers suggest.
