Just like in Madeira, some insects have bigger wings while others have smaller wings because of natural selection and how much they use their wings. In the same way, the cave-rat’s eyes got bigger because natural selection helped it see better in the dark. But for most other cave animals, their eyes got smaller or disappeared just because they stopped using them.

It’s hard to think of two places more alike than deep limestone caves with almost the same weather. So, if blind animals were made separately for American and European caves, you might expect them to be very similar. But, as Schiodte and others noticed, this isn’t true. The cave insects from the two continents are not more closely related than other animals from North America and Europe. 

I think animals with normal eyesight slowly moved, generation after generation, from outside into deeper parts of the caves. This happened in both America and Europe. We even have some proof of this. Schiodte said animals that are not too different from normal ones help us see how they move from light places to dark ones. First come those that live in dim light, then those that live in total darkness.

After many generations living deep inside, animals stop using their eyes, so the eyes shrink or disappear. Natural selection also causes changes like longer antennae or feelers to help them sense things better instead of seeing. Even with these changes, cave animals in America still show links to other American animals, and European cave animals are connected to European animals. This matches what Professor Dana said about some American cave animals and what we see in Europe too.

It would be hard to explain these links if we thought the blind cave animals were created separately. Since most animals and plants on each continent are related, it makes sense the cave animals are too. Some cave animals look very different, like the blind fish Amblyopsis or the blind Proteus in Europe, but I’m surprised we don’t find more fossils from ancient times. Probably because there’s less competition in caves, many old species survived there.

Now about getting used to new places—plants inherit habits like when they flower or how much rain they need to grow. This makes me talk about acclimatisation, which means getting used to new climates. Since species of the same group live in very hot or very cold places and probably all come from one common ancestor, they must have gotten used to their climates over many generations.

We know each species is suited to its home climate. Animals from cold places usually can’t live in hot places, and vice versa. Also, some plants that store water don’t do well in wet places. But sometimes, we think species are better adapted to their climates than they really are. We see this because it’s hard to tell if a plant from another place will survive here, and many plants and animals from warmer countries do just fine in colder ones.

In nature, species live where they do not only because of climate but also because of competition with other living things. Sometimes competition limits where they can live even more than the climate does.
