To explain what probably happened during the Ice Age, I assumed that at the start, the plants and animals near the North Pole were the same all around, just like they are today. But this idea doesn’t only apply to animals and plants that live right in the Arctic. It also includes some that live just below the Arctic and a few that live in the northern parts of warmer areas. Some of these species are found both on low mountains and plains in North America and Europe. So, it’s fair to ask how these plants and animals were so similar all over the world at the beginning of the Ice Age.

Today, the plants and animals in the northern parts of Europe and North America are separated by the Atlantic Ocean and the far northern Pacific Ocean. During the Ice Age, when these creatures lived further south than they do now, they were even more separated by oceans. I think this problem can be solved by thinking about an earlier time when the climate was warmer, the opposite of the Ice Age.

We know that before the Ice Age, during a period called the newer Pliocene, the climate was warmer than it is now. Because of this, the plants and animals that now live around 60 degrees north latitude probably lived even farther north, above the Polar Circle at about 66 or 67 degrees north. The true Arctic plants and animals lived on land even closer to the pole. Looking at a globe, you’ll see that above the Polar Circle, there was almost one big stretch of land from western Europe, across Siberia, to eastern North America.

Because of this connected land and the warmer climate, plants and animals could move freely between these areas. This explains why the plants and animals just below the Arctic and in northern temperate zones were so similar in both the Old World (Europe and Asia) and the New World (North America) before the Ice Age.

I also believe that the continents have stayed in almost the same places for a long time, even though the land levels changed a bit. So, during an even earlier and warmer time, like the older Pliocene period, many of the same plants and animals lived across this nearly continuous land around the North Pole. As the climate cooled down, these species slowly moved south, long before the Ice Age started.

Today, we can see their descendants in central Europe and the United States, but they have changed over time. This helps us understand why the plants and animals in North America and Europe are related, even though these places are far apart and separated by the Atlantic Ocean. It also explains why, during the later part of the Tertiary period, the plants and animals in Europe and America were more closely related than they are now. Back then, the northern parts of the Old and New Worlds were almost connected by land, acting as a bridge for species to move between them. Today, this connection is blocked by cold.

As the Pliocene period got cooler, once the species that lived in both the Old and New Worlds moved south of the Polar Circle, they became completely separated. This separation for the more temperate plants and animals happened a very long time ago. As these species moved south, they mixed with the native plants and animals in both America and Europe, and had to compete with them.

Because of this, there was a lot of change and adaptation. These changes were much greater than for the plants and animals that stayed isolated on mountain ranges or in Arctic lands, which happened more recently.
