The theory of natural selection is based on the idea that new types of plants or animals, and eventually new species, happen because they have some advantage over others they compete with. The ones that are less suited usually die out.

It's the same with animals and plants we raise at home. When a new and slightly better kind is created, it replaces the older ones nearby. If it’s much better, it gets shared far and wide, like short-horn cattle, and replaces other breeds in different places. So, new types appear and old ones disappear, both in nature and through human help. Sometimes, more new species are made than old ones that die out, but overall the total number of species hasn’t grown forever. This means new species usually replace old ones over time.

Competition happens mostly between species that are very similar to each other. So, the improved versions of a species tend to replace the original species. If many new types come from one species, the close relatives of that species are most likely to die out. This means a new group of species can take over from an old group in the same family. But sometimes a new species from one group takes over the spot of a species from a totally different group, causing it to die out. Many related species of the successful new group may also replace others, especially those with similar weaknesses. However, some species survive longer because they live in special places or have unique ways of living with less competition. For example, one kind of shell called Trigonia still lives in Australian seas, and some rare fish live in fresh water even though their groups are mostly gone. So, groups usually disappear more slowly than they form.

When whole big groups like Trilobites or Ammonites suddenly die out, it might seem quick, but this could be because of long gaps in the fossil record. The real dying out probably happened slowly over a long time.

Also, when a new group of species quickly moves into a new area, they can quickly kill off many old species. Those that die are usually close relatives because they share some common weakness.

So, how single species and whole groups go extinct fits well with natural selection. We shouldn’t be surprised by extinction. If anything, we should be amazed that we ever think we fully understand all the complicated reasons why each species exists.
