We know from Falconer and Cautley’s findings that northern India used to have animals more similar to those in Africa than it does now.

Similar facts can be said about sea animals and where they live.

According to the idea of evolution, the reason why the same types of animals last a long time in the same places is clear. Animals in a certain part of the world tend to have babies that live nearby and look a lot like them, but with some changes. If animals in one continent were very different from those in another long ago, their descendants will still be pretty different today. But after a long time and big changes in the land, animals can move around more, and weaker kinds die out while stronger ones take over. So, the rules about where animals live are not fixed forever.

Some might joke and ask if huge creatures like the megatherium turned into smaller animals like sloths, armadillos, and anteaters in South America. That’s not true. Those giant animals are completely gone and have no descendants. But in caves in Brazil, scientists found extinct animals that look a lot like some living South American species. These fossils might be the ancestors of the animals alive today. Remember, according to my theory, all species in the same group come from one original species. So, if we find six groups of animals with eight species each in one rock layer, and in the next layer there are six similar new groups with the same number of species, it probably means only one species from each old group changed into the new groups. The other species died out. More often, only a few species from a few old groups gave rise to the new groups, while the rest disappeared completely. For groups that are dying out, like the Edentata animals in South America, even fewer species survive to have descendants.

To sum up the last few chapters: I have tried to explain that the fossil record is very incomplete. Only a small part of the world has been carefully studied. Only some types of animals are often found as fossils. The number of fossils we have is tiny compared to how many generations have lived during each time period. Fossil layers form only when the land sinks and gathers enough deposits, so a lot of time passes between layers. More animals probably went extinct during times when the land sank, and more changes happened when the land rose, but the fossil record from those times is less complete. Each fossil layer wasn’t formed all at once and might have lasted a short time compared to how long species live. Moving around has been important for new animals to appear in different places. Animals that live in many areas tend to change more and create new species. At first, new variations often appear only in certain places. All these reasons together explain why the fossil record doesn’t show endless small changes connecting all extinct and living animals step by step.
