I don’t think any animal does something just to help a different species, but each species tries to use the natural behaviors of others to their own advantage. Also, some instincts aren’t always perfect. But since these details aren’t super important, we can skip them for now.

Instincts can change a little in nature, and these changes get passed down through generations, which is important for natural selection to work. I wish I could give more examples, but there isn’t enough space. For example, some animals’ instincts to migrate can change in how far or where they go, or even disappear entirely. Bird nests also change depending on where the birds live and the weather, but sometimes for reasons we don’t understand. Audubon noticed that the same bird species build different nests in the northern and southern parts of the U.S. Fear of certain enemies is natural, like baby birds being scared of predators, but this fear gets stronger with experience and by seeing other animals scared. Fear of humans takes longer to develop, as shown by animals living on deserted islands. Even in England, big birds are wilder than small birds because humans hunt big birds more. On islands with no people, big birds aren’t more scared than small ones. Also, magpies are wild in England but tame in Norway, and hooded crows are tame in Egypt.

Animals of the same species born in the wild can act very differently from each other. Sometimes, weird habits show up in a species, and if those habits help the species survive, they might become new instincts over time. I know these ideas might seem weak without lots of examples, but I promise I have good reasons for them.

Looking at animals we keep as pets or farm animals helps us understand how instincts can change and get passed down. We can see how habits and accidental changes have shaped how domestic animals behave. For example, different dog breeds show a range of behaviors and tricks that seem to be inherited. Young pointers sometimes point at game dogs without being taught, retrievers naturally like to fetch, and shepherd dogs tend to run around flocks instead of straight at them. These actions happen even when the dogs are young, they enjoy doing them, and they don’t really understand why they do them—just like a butterfly laying eggs on a cabbage leaf without knowing why. These behaviors are basically instincts. If we saw one kind of wolf freeze and sneak toward prey right away, and another kind run around a herd to drive it away, we would definitely call those instincts.
