Some changes happen because animals or plants use certain parts more or less. This makes things very complicated. Sometimes, different species that were originally separate have mixed together, which helped create the animals and plants we have today. When there are several breeds in one place, they sometimes mix, and with selective breeding, new sub-breeds can form. But I think people have made mixing varieties sound more important than it really is, especially for animals and seed-grown plants. For plants grown by cuttings or buds, mixing different species or varieties is very important because growers don’t worry about how hybrids can be unpredictable or often can’t make seeds. But these plants don’t last long, so they aren’t very important to us.

Out of all the reasons for change, I believe selection, whether done on purpose and fast or done without knowing it and slow but steady, is the most powerful force.

Chapter II: Variation Under Nature  
Living things can change in many ways. Individuals are different from each other. Some species are hard to tell apart. Species that live in many places and are common tend to change the most. Big groups of related species in one country show more variation than small groups. Many species in big groups are very closely related, almost like varieties, and they live in limited areas.

Before we apply these ideas to wild plants and animals, we need to talk about whether they change at all. To explain this properly, I would need to list many facts, which I will save for later.

I won’t discuss all the different meanings of the word “species” here. No one definition fits all scientists, but everyone sort of knows what they mean. Usually, species means a group created separately. The word “variety” is also hard to define, but it usually means a group that comes from the same ancestors, even if we can’t always prove it. We also have “monstrosities,” which are big changes in one part of a plant or animal that don’t help it and usually don’t get passed on. Some scientists use “variation” to mean changes caused directly by the environment that don’t get inherited. But who can say that smaller shells in salty water, or shorter plants on mountains, or thicker fur in animals from cold places, wouldn’t sometimes be passed down for a few generations? If they were, we’d probably call that a variety.

There are also many small differences called individual differences. These happen even among offspring of the same parents or animals living close together. No one thinks all members of a species are exactly the same. These small differences are very important because natural selection can work on them, just like people can breed animals or plants to make certain traits stronger.
