Imagine B and C are two different species, and a third one, A, is found in a layer of rock below them. Even if A looks like it’s between B and C, it would still be called a separate species unless it shows clear links to one or both of them through other forms that are in-between. Also, A might actually be the ancestor of B and C, but it doesn’t have to be exactly in the middle in terms of features. So, we might find a parent species and its changed descendants in different rock layers, but if we don’t find many forms that show gradual changes, we won’t see their connection and will just call them all different species.

Many paleontologists have based species on very small differences, especially when the fossils come from slightly different layers of the same rock formation. Some experts who study shells now group many detailed species into varieties, which fits with the idea of gradual change. Also, if we look at fossils from different but close time periods in the same big rock formation, the species are often more closely related to each other than species found in rock layers that are far apart in time. I will talk more about this in the next chapter.

Another thing to think about is animals and plants that reproduce quickly and don’t move much. Their different forms usually start in small local areas. These local varieties don’t spread far or replace their original forms until they have changed enough. Because of this, it’s unlikely that we will find all the early stages of change between two species in one place, since these changes probably happened in small, separate spots. Most sea animals live in wide areas, and plants with wide ranges often have many varieties. So, wide-ranging sea animals are more likely to create new varieties and species, but this makes it harder for us to find all the transition stages in just one rock layer.

We should remember that even today, with perfect samples, it’s hard to connect two forms as the same species without collecting many examples from many places. For fossils, this is even harder. To understand why it’s so unlikely to find many clear fossil links between species, think about whether future scientists will be able to prove that all our breeds of cows, sheep, horses, and dogs come from one original group, or several. Or whether certain sea shells from North America, which some scientists call different species from European ones while others say they are just varieties, can be clearly sorted out. This would only be possible if future scientists found many fossils showing gradual changes, but that seems very unlikely to me.
