Some species and groups of species live for very different amounts of time. Some have been around since life first began, while others disappeared long ago, before the end of the Paleozoic period. There’s no set rule for how long a species or group will last. It seems like species usually die out more slowly than they appear. If you imagine the life of a group as a thick line, the line gets thinner slowly when they start to disappear but gets thicker quickly when they first show up. However, sometimes entire groups, like ammonites near the end of the secondary period, disappeared really fast.

People have made extinction seem more mysterious than it really is.

Some have even thought species have a set lifespan, like individual animals do. I was very surprised when I found a horse tooth in La Plata with bones of giant extinct animals like Mastodon and Megatherium, all from a time when some shells that still exist today were also around. Since horses introduced by the Spanish have spread quickly in South America, I wondered what caused the old horse species to die out when conditions seemed so good. But my surprise was wrong! Professor Owen showed the tooth belonged to an extinct kind of horse. If that horse species had still been alive but rare, no one would have been shocked, because many species are rare everywhere. When we wonder why a species is rare, we usually say it’s because something in its environment isn’t right, but we almost never know exactly what. If the fossil horse had been rare but still alive, we could be sure that if things got better, it would spread quickly, like domestic horses have. But we can’t say what made life hard for that horse species, when it happened, or how bad it was. If conditions slowly got worse, we might not even notice, but the horse would become rarer and eventually die out, replaced by a stronger species.

It’s hard to remember that every living thing faces hidden problems that stop it from growing too much. These hidden problems can make a species rare and finally cause it to disappear. We see in recent fossils that species often become rare before they go extinct. We also know this has happened to animals wiped out by humans, either in certain places or everywhere.

I want to repeat what I said in 1845: if we accept that species usually get rare before they die out, it doesn’t make sense to be okay with rarity but surprised when a species disappears. It’s like being okay when someone is sick but shocked when they die, thinking something strange must have happened.
