Basic organs can clearly tell us about old structures that no longer exist. Strange species, sometimes called living fossils, help us imagine how ancient life looked. Studying embryos also shows us parts of the early forms of big groups of animals.

When we are sure that all members of a species and related species came from one original ancestor not too long ago and moved from one place, and when we understand how they moved, we can use geology to learn about past changes in climate and land. This will help us track how animals and plants spread around the world. Even now, by looking at sea creatures on different sides of a continent and how animals got there, we can learn about old geography.

Geology is an amazing science but has problems because the earth’s record is incomplete. The earth’s crust with fossils is not like a full museum but more like a random, rare collection. Each big fossil layer was made by special events, and the gaps between these layers were very long. We can estimate how long these gaps were by comparing the fossils before and after. We should be careful not to say two layers are the same age just because their fossils look similar. Species change slowly over time because of natural causes and how organisms affect each other, not because of sudden creations or disasters. The amount of change in fossils probably shows how much time passed. Some species might stay the same for a long time, but others change when they move to new places and meet new species. So, we can’t always trust fossil changes as an exact clock. Long ago, life was simpler and changed more slowly, especially at the very start. The history we know is huge but is only a tiny part of all the time since the very first living thing was made.

In the far future, I see big chances for new studies. Psychology will be built on the idea that all mental abilities develop step by step. We will learn more about where humans come from and their story.

Many famous writers believe each species was created on its own. But I think it makes more sense that creatures appeared and disappeared because of natural reasons, like how living things are born and die.
