To get a smooth change between two forms in the top and bottom parts of the same layer, the deposit must have built up over a very long time. This gives enough time for slow changes to happen. So, the deposit usually has to be very thick, and the species changing must have lived in the same place the whole time.

But thick fossil layers can only form when the land is slowly sinking. To keep the water depth about the same, which lets the same species live there, the amount of new sediment must nearly match how much the land sinks. However, this sinking can also lower the area where the sediment comes from, reducing the sediment supply as sinking continues. This perfect balance between sinking and sediment supply is probably very rare. Scientists have noticed that very thick layers often don’t have many fossils, except near the top or bottom.

It seems that each layer, like all layers in a country, usually built up in chunks. When we see layers made of different kinds of minerals, it probably means the deposit process was often stopped and started again. Changes in sea currents or sediment types usually happen because of big geographical changes that take a lot of time. Also, looking closely at a layer doesn’t tell us how long it took to form. Some beds only a few feet thick represent layers thousands of feet thick elsewhere, meaning they formed over huge time periods. But without knowing this, no one would guess the time involved.

There are many examples where lower beds were lifted up, worn down, covered by water, and then buried again by upper beds of the same layer. This shows that long breaks happened during formation, but they can be easy to miss. In some cases, fossilized trees still stand upright where they grew, showing long gaps and changes in land level during deposit. For example, scientists Lyell and Dawson found carboniferous beds 1400 feet thick in Nova Scotia, with ancient root layers at sixty-eight different levels.

So, when the same species appear at the bottom, middle, and top of a layer, it’s likely they didn’t live there the whole time. Instead, they disappeared and came back many times during that period. If a species changed a lot during one geological period, the layer probably won’t show all the small steps of change. Instead, it will show sudden, though maybe small, differences in form.

It’s very important to remember that scientists don’t have a perfect rule for telling species and varieties apart. They accept some small differences within a species. But if two forms are quite different, they call them separate species, unless they can find close links between them. Because of what was explained, it’s hard to find those links in just one geological layer.
