Over time, the strongest and most common types of living things tend to take over everywhere. As they spread, they cause weaker types to disappear. Since these weaker types are related, whole groups might slowly vanish, although sometimes a single species can survive for a long time.

So, it seems to me that the same kinds of life appearing all around the world fit with the idea that new species form when strong species spread and change. These new species are also strong because they inherit good traits and already have some advantages over their parents or other species. They spread, change, and create even newer species. The weaker groups lose out because they share some common weaknesses, so as new and better groups take over, old groups disappear worldwide. This way, the order of living things changing over time is similar everywhere.

There’s one more thing to mention. I think all the big fossil layers were made when the earth was sinking down. There were long times when the sea bed stayed still or rose, and during those times, not much sediment covered and saved animals and plants. During these long quiet times, animals and plants in an area changed a lot or died out, and many moved from other places. Since big areas can sink or rise together, it’s likely that similar layers were made over large parts of the world at the same time. But we can’t say this always happened. When layers formed at almost the same time but not exactly, the order of life forms would look the same, but the exact species would be different because one place had more time for changes, deaths, and new arrivals.

I think this happened in Europe. Mr. Prestwich studied old layers in England and France and found that their stages matched well overall. But when he looked closely, the species were different even though the two areas are close. One idea is that a land bridge separated two seas with different but living-at-the-same-time animals and plants. Lyell noticed similar things in other old layers. Barrande showed that old layers in Bohemia and Scandinavia also had a similar order but many different species. If layers in these places didn’t form at exactly the same time—like when one area’s layer matches a quiet time in the other—and species slowly changed during the layers forming and long gaps, then the layers would seem to match in order, but the species wouldn’t be exactly the same in the similar stages.
