But besides these differences, all scientists who study nature agree that there are varieties, which they think are different enough to be mentioned in their books. No one can clearly say where to draw the line between small individual differences and slight varieties, or between obvious varieties, sub-species, and full species. Notice how scientists don’t always agree on how to classify the many types found in Europe and North America.

If nature has variability and a strong force ready to act and select, why should we doubt that helpful changes in living things would be kept, built up, and passed down? If people can patiently choose useful traits, why wouldn’t nature do the same, choosing traits that help living things survive in changing conditions? What limit is there to this power that works over long time periods, carefully checking every part of a creature’s body and behavior—favoring the good and rejecting the bad? I don’t see any limit to this power, slowly and perfectly adjusting each form to fit complex life situations. The idea of natural selection seems likely to me, even if we only look at this. I’ve already gone over the challenges and objections fairly; now let’s look at the facts and reasons supporting the idea.

If we think species are just strong and permanent varieties, and each species started as a variety, it makes sense why we can’t clearly separate species (often thought to be made by special creation) from varieties (thought to come from natural laws). With this idea, it’s easy to see why in places where many species of a group have been made and now live well, these species also show many varieties. Where species have been created actively, we’d expect this process to still be going on—and that’s true if varieties are early species. Also, species in large groups that have many varieties or new species still keep some variety-like features; they differ from each other less than species in smaller groups do. Species closely related in big groups often live in limited areas and are clustered around other species—these things make them more like varieties. These are strange facts if every species was made separately, but they make sense if all species started as varieties.

Since each species tends to grow in number very fast, and since the changed descendants can grow more as they become more varied in habits and bodies, so they can live in many different parts of nature, natural selection will always tend to keep the most different offspring from one species. So over a long time, small differences in varieties of the same species tend to grow into bigger differences that define species in the same group. New and better varieties will replace and kill off the older, less improved ones; this makes species mostly clear and separate. Popular species in big groups tend to produce new and popular forms, so each big group tends to get bigger and more different in character.
