So, all the "in-between" forms of a species—those that are changing from an older version to a newer, better version—usually die out. This also happens to the original parent species. The same thing probably happens to many related family lines, which get replaced by newer, better ones. But if the changed offspring move to a new place or quickly adapt to a different way of living where they don’t compete with their parents, both can survive.

If we think about our example, species (A) and all its early versions probably died out and were replaced by eight new species (a14 to m14). Species (I) was replaced by six new species (n14 to z14).

We can go further. The original species in our group were more or less similar to each other. Species (A) was closer to B, C, and D than to the others, and species (I) was closer to G, H, K, and L.

Species (A) and (I) were also very common and spread out, so they likely had some advantages over the other species in their group.

Their changed descendants, fourteen of them at the 14,000th generation, probably kept some of those advantages. They've also changed in many ways over time, adapting to different roles in their environment. So, it’s very likely these new species took over and wiped out not just their parents (A and I), but also some original species closely related to their parents. That means very few original species made it to the 14,000th generation.

We can guess that only one species (F), which was less related to the others, survived and passed on descendants this far.

Now, the new species from the original eleven will be fifteen in total. Because natural selection pushes species to become different, the differences between species a14 and z14 will be much bigger than between the most different of the original eleven.

Also, the new species will be connected in very different ways. Of the eight from (A), three (a14, q14, p14) are closely related because they split off recently. Two others (b14 and f14) split earlier and are a bit different. The last three (o14, e14, m14) are closely related to each other but very different from the other five—they might even form their own group or genus.

The six species from (I) will form two separate groups or genera. Since (I) was very different from (A), the descendants from these two species will be quite different too and have continued to change in different directions.

Also, the species that connected the original (A) and (I) are all gone except for (F), which left no descendants.

So, the six new species from (I) and the eight from (A) will probably be seen as very different groups, maybe even separate sub-families or genera.
