But I don’t think this is a good reason to doubt that plants and animals could spread to new places slowly over a long time. When a new island is just starting to form and doesn’t have many living things yet, almost every seed that arrives can grow and survive because there aren’t many insects or birds that would harm them.

During the Ice Age, there were many plants and animals living on mountaintops that were far apart, separated by lowlands where these cold-loving species couldn’t live. It’s really surprising that the same kinds of plants are found on snowy mountains in Europe and also far away in North America. For example, the plants on the White Mountains in the USA are the same as those in Labrador and almost the same as on Europe’s tallest mountains. 

A long time ago, some people thought these plants were made separately in different places. But later, scientists like Agassiz showed that the Ice Age explains this better. We have lots of proof that not too long ago, Europe and North America were much colder. Mountains in Scotland and Wales still show signs of glaciers, like polished rocks and big boulders left behind by ice. In Northern Italy, old glaciers left big piles of rocks that are now covered by grapevines and corn. In the US, strange rocks and marks show that ice once covered large areas.

Edward Forbes explained how the Ice Age affected where animals and plants lived in Europe. Imagine a new Ice Age starting slowly and then ending, just like before. As it got colder, animals and plants that liked warm weather had to move south or die if they couldn’t cross barriers. Mountains got covered with snow and ice, forcing animals that lived there to move down to the plains. At the coldest time, the middle of Europe would have been covered with cold-loving animals and plants, even reaching as far as Spain. The same thing would happen in the US, with cold-loving species spreading over large areas. The timing might have been a little different, but the result was the same.

When the Earth warmed up again, the cold-loving plants and animals moved back north. They stayed on the ground that melted first and climbed higher on the mountains as the temperature rose. Meanwhile, the warm-weather species also moved back north, following the retreat of the cold climate.
