When this change is finished, they stay that way for life: their legs turn into stuff they can use to grab things; they get a well-made mouth again; but they don’t have antennae anymore, and their two eyes change into one tiny, simple eye spot. In this last stage, these creatures can be seen as either more advanced or less advanced than when they were larvae. But in some types, the larvae grow into hermaphrodites with the usual body, or into what I call complemental males: in the males, development actually goes backwards because the male is just a small sack that lives for a short time and doesn’t have a mouth, stomach, or important organs except the ones for making babies.

We’re used to seeing that embryos look different from adults, and also that embryos of very different animals in the same group look similar. This might make us think these facts are just about growth. But there’s no clear reason why, for example, a bat’s wing or a porpoise’s fin can’t have all their parts ready and the right size early on in the embryo. In some animal groups, the embryo doesn’t look very different from the adult at any time. For example, with cuttlefish, there’s no big change; their main features show up before the embryo is fully formed. The same is true for spiders, which don’t really go through a big change. Insects’ larvae usually look like worms at first, whether they are active or not, and are fed by their parents or surrounded by food. But in some cases, like the Aphis insect, there’s no worm-like stage at all.

So, how can we explain these things in embryology? Like why embryos and adults usually look different but not always, why parts in the same embryo that will turn into very different body parts look the same early on, why embryos of different species in the same group often look alike but not always, why the embryo’s body shape doesn’t seem connected to how it lives unless it has to survive on its own, and why sometimes embryos seem more complex than the adults they become? I think all these facts make sense if we believe animals have changed over time from common ancestors.

People often think that changes in an animal’s body must happen early in the embryo because we see early problems in embryos sometimes. But we don’t have much proof for this; actually, evidence shows the opposite. Breeders of animals like cows or horses can’t usually tell right after birth how the animal will look or what it will be good at. We see this with humans too—we can’t always guess if a child will be tall or what their exact face will look like. The real question isn’t when the change started but when you can see it clearly. The change might have started even before the embryo formed, maybe because of something that happened to the parents or their ancestors. Still, a change caused early on can show up late, like a disease that only appears when someone is old but was passed down from their parents.
