Birds usually have clean beaks and feet, but sometimes dirt sticks to them. For example, I once took off twenty-two grains of dry earth from one foot of a partridge, and in that dirt, there was a small pebble as big as a seed. This shows that seeds can sometimes travel long distances. Soil almost everywhere has seeds in it. Think about the millions of quails that fly across the Mediterranean every year. It’s very likely that some tiny seeds stick to the dirt on their feet. I’ll talk more about this later.

Icebergs can carry earth and stones, and sometimes even wood, bones, and bird nests. So, I believe they also sometimes move seeds from one place to another in the Arctic and Antarctic, as Lyell suggested. During the Ice Age, they might have moved seeds between cooler areas. On the Azores islands, many plants are similar to those in Europe, more than on other nearby islands. This made me think that icebergs could have brought seeds there during the Ice Age. Sir C. Lyell asked M. Hartung if he found strange rocks on these islands. He said yes, there were big rocks that do not belong there. This means icebergs probably dropped these rocks on the islands, and maybe they also brought northern plant seeds.

Many ways exist for seeds to travel, and some we don’t even know yet. These have been happening for thousands of years. It would be amazing if many plants hadn’t spread far because of these ways. People call these methods "accidental," but that’s not quite right. Ocean currents and wind directions are not random. Still, seeds can’t travel super long distances this way because saltwater and time kill them, and birds can’t carry seeds inside them for too long. But these ways can help seeds move across seas a few hundred miles wide, from one island to another, or from a continent to a nearby island. They can’t move seeds between far-apart continents. So, plants on distant continents stay different, just like we see now.

For example, currents don’t carry seeds from North America to Britain, but they do bring seeds from the West Indies to Britain’s west coast. However, those seeds usually die in the saltwater or can’t survive Britain’s climate. Almost every year, one or two land-birds get blown across the Atlantic Ocean from North America to Ireland or England. Seeds could only travel with these birds if they stuck to their feet, which is rare. Even then, the chance of a seed landing in good soil and growing is very small. It would be wrong to think that because a well-stocked island like Great Britain hasn’t gotten new plants from Europe or other continents recently, a smaller, more remote island wouldn’t get new plants this way. Out of twenty seeds or animals that reach an island, maybe only one will survive and grow well in its new home.
