I have sometimes talked like the changes we see in animals and plants happen just by chance.  

But that’s not really true. It just means we don’t fully understand why each change happens. Some people think the reproductive system’s job is to make babies that look like their parents, but it also causes small differences between individuals.  

We see way more changes and unusual forms in animals and plants that are raised by people than in those living in the wild. This makes me think these changes happen because of the environment the parents and their ancestors lived in for many generations.  

I mentioned before that the reproductive system is very sensitive to changes in life conditions. So when the parents’ system is affected, their babies can turn out different. The parts that make a new baby are affected even before they join together.  

In some plants, only the bud is affected. But we don’t really know why some parts change more than others when the reproductive system is disturbed. Still, we believe there’s a reason behind every small change.  

It’s hard to say how much things like climate and food directly affect living things. I think animals don’t change much because of this, but plants might change a bit more.  

We can be sure that climate and food alone can’t explain the many amazing ways animals and plants fit perfectly with each other in nature.  

Some small effects do happen. For example, shells near the equator or in shallow water are brighter than ones from colder places or deeper water. Birds of the same species look brighter in clear air than on islands or near coasts. Insects near the sea often have different colors. Some plants near the sea have thicker, fleshier leaves, unlike the same plants elsewhere.  

Sometimes, varieties of one species living near another species start to look a little like that other species. This fits with the idea that species are really just well-marked and stable varieties.  

For example, shells living in warm, shallow seas are usually brighter than those in cold, deep seas. Birds living on continents are brighter than island birds. Insects near the sea often have shiny or strange colors. Plants by the sea often have fleshy leaves.
