If someone thinks that each kind of horse was created separately, they might also believe that each kind was made to change in certain ways, both in nature and when raised by people. They would say these changes often make horses get stripes like other kinds in the same group. They might also say that when different kinds of horses from faraway places breed, their babies look like other kinds in the group, not like their parents. But believing this seems to me like choosing a fake or unknown reason instead of a real one. It would make God’s work seem like a trick or lie. I might as well believe old, wrong ideas that fossil shells never lived but were made in rocks to fool us.

Summary — We really don’t understand well why living things change. In most cases, we can’t say why one part is a little different from the same part in the parents. But when we compare things, it looks like the same rules cause small differences within a species and bigger differences between species in the same group. Things like climate and food seem to cause small changes. Habits can cause bigger changes inside the body, and using or not using parts can make them stronger or weaker. Similar parts tend to change in the same way and to be connected. Changes in hard or outside parts can also affect soft parts inside. When one part grows big, it might take energy from nearby parts. The body tries to keep every part it can without hurting the animal. Changes early in life usually affect parts that grow later. Lots of growth connections happen that we don’t understand.

Parts that come in multiples, like fingers or ribs, can vary in number and shape. This might be because these parts aren’t specially made for one job, so changes aren’t stopped by natural selection. Probably for the same reason, simple animals change more than complex ones. Useless parts, called rudimentary organs, don’t get protection from natural selection, so they can change more. The features that make species different from each other are more changeable than the features shared for a long time. We talked about some parts still changing because they recently started to differ, but this idea also applies to the whole animal. In places where many species of a group live, we find many variations or new species forming. Differences between males and females are very changeable, and these differences vary a lot between related species. Usually, the parts that change most are used to show differences between sexes or between species in the same group. Any part that is much bigger or different than in related species must have changed a lot since the group began. That’s why it often still changes more than other parts. Change happens slowly over a long time, and natural selection hasn’t yet stopped these parts from changing or going back to a simpler form.
