When people accept the ideas in this book about how species started, or similar ideas, we can guess that natural history will change a lot. Scientists who classify living things will keep doing their work like before, but they won’t always worry about whether something really counts as a species or not. I’m sure this will be a big relief because it’s frustrating to argue about whether fifty types of British brambles are true species.

Instead, scientists will just need to decide (though it won’t be easy) if a form is steady enough and different enough from others to be clearly defined. Then, they’ll have to decide if the differences are important enough to give it a species name. This second part will become more important than it is now. Right now, even tiny differences between two forms, if there aren’t any forms in between, make most scientists call both species.

In the future, we’ll have to admit that the difference between species and clear varieties is that varieties are connected by forms in between now, while species were connected like that in the past. So, while we won’t ignore whether there are forms in between now, we’ll focus more on how big the differences really are. It’s possible that forms now seen as just varieties might later be called species, like the primrose and cowslip. This will make scientific names match common names better.

Basically, we’ll have to treat species like some scientists treat genera — as groups made for convenience. This might not sound exciting, but at least we won’t waste time looking for the impossible “real” meaning of species.

Other parts of natural history will become much more interesting. Words scientists use like affinity, relationship, type, paternity, shape, useful features, useless or incomplete organs, and so on will stop being just fancy words and will have clear meanings.

When we stop looking at living things like a person who doesn’t understand a ship — seeing them as mysterious — and instead realize every living thing has a history; when we see every body part and instinct as a result of many useful changes, like a big machine built by many workers with their experience and mistakes; then, natural history will be way more interesting. I say this from experience.

A huge, almost untouched area of study will open up about why living things vary, how growth is linked, what happens when things are used or not used, how the environment affects them, and more. Studying plants and animals we keep at home or farm will become way more important. A new variety made by people will be much more interesting to study than just finding another species.

Our ways of grouping living things will become like family trees, showing real relationships. This will truly show how life was created. The rules for sorting living things will probably get simpler once we know what we’re aiming for. We don’t have family trees or coats of arms for these living things, so we have to work hard to find and follow their family lines by looking at traits passed down through many generations.
