The mouths and limbs of crustaceans follow similar rules when they are built. The same goes for the flowers of plants.

Trying to explain why members of the same group look alike by saying it’s because of usefulness or a final plan doesn’t work. Even experts like Owen admit it’s hopeless to explain it that way. If we think each living thing was created separately, we can only say that’s how the Creator made them.

The answer is clearer if we think about natural selection. Small changes happen over time, and each change helps the animal or plant in some way. Sometimes, changes in one part affect other parts too. But these changes don’t usually change the basic pattern or how parts are connected. For example, the bones in a limb might get shorter or wider and become part of a fin, or get longer and help make a wing. But the basic structure stays the same.

If the oldest ancestor of all mammals had limbs built in a certain way, it makes sense that all mammals have similar limb structures. The same goes for insect mouths. If their earliest ancestor had certain mouth parts, natural selection explains why insect mouths look so different now. Sometimes, the basic pattern can get hidden or lost when some parts disappear, stick together, or multiply. This has happened in some extinct sea creatures and crustaceans.

There’s another interesting idea: comparing different parts inside the same animal. Many scientists think the bones in the skull match the parts of some vertebrae (spinal bones). The front and back limbs in animals clearly match each other. The same is true for jaws and legs in crustaceans. Almost everyone knows that the parts of a flower—like sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils—are actually changed leaves arranged in a spiral. In strange plants, we can see how one part can turn into another. Also, in embryos of crustaceans, animals, and flowers, parts that look very different later on look the same early in development.

These facts don’t make sense if you just think everything was created as it is. For example, why is the brain inside a skull made of many oddly shaped bones? Owen pointed out that the fact that these bones help during birth in mammals doesn’t explain why bird skulls are built the same way.
