When a pond or stream first forms, like on a new island, it starts out empty. This means that even just one seed or egg has a good chance to grow or hatch there. Although animals and plants already living in a pond will compete with each other to survive, there are fewer kinds of species in water than on land. Because of this, it’s probably easier for a new water species to settle in than it is for land animals or plants. Also, many fresh-water creatures are simple and slow to change over time, so they have more time to spread out and move to new places.

It’s also possible that some species used to live in big connected areas but later died out in the middle parts. The reason fresh-water plants and small animals are found in many places mostly comes down to their seeds and eggs being carried around by animals, especially water birds. These birds can fly long distances and often visit different bodies of water. Nature works like a careful gardener, taking seeds from one spot and dropping them in another place where they can grow well.

Now, let’s talk about animals and plants on ocean islands. This is the last big problem to think about when we believe that all living things come from one original ancestor and have spread out over time to live in faraway places. Some people, like Forbes, say that all islands were once connected to continents, which would make it easier to explain how species got there. But I don’t fully agree with this idea because it doesn’t explain everything about island life.

The number of species on ocean islands is much smaller than on the same-sized areas of continents. For example, New Zealand, which is very large and has many different environments, has only about 750 kinds of flowering plants. But places like the Cape of Good Hope or Australia, which are similar in size, have many more kinds. Even a small place like Cambridge county in England has more plants than New Zealand. The small island of Ascension originally had fewer than six kinds of flowering plants, but many more types have been introduced there and on other ocean islands over time.
