So, if people keep choosing certain traits and making them stronger, other parts of the body might change too, without us even noticing. This happens because of some strange rules about how things grow together.

The way things change is really complicated and mixed up. It’s worth reading about old plants we grow, like hyacinths, potatoes, and dahlias, because there are so many tiny differences between different types and sub-types. The whole plant seems flexible and slowly changes a bit from its original form.

If a change doesn’t get passed down to the next generation, it doesn’t really matter to us. But there are a huge number of changes that do get inherited, some small and some important. A scientist named Dr. Prosper Lucas wrote a big book about this. People who breed animals and plants all believe that “like produces like.” Only some theoretical thinkers have doubted this idea.

When a change happens often, like in a parent and child, we can’t always tell if it’s because of the same cause. But if a rare change happens in a parent and then also shows up in the child, it’s almost certain that it was inherited. You’ve probably heard of traits like albinism, prickly skin, or hairy bodies showing up in several family members. If we accept that strange, rare traits are inherited, then it makes sense that more common traits are inherited too. Maybe the best way to think about it is that inheritance is normal, and not inheriting traits is the unusual thing.

We don’t really know the rules of inheritance. No one can explain why the same trait is passed down in some cases but not in others, or why kids sometimes look more like their grandparents or other distant relatives. Sometimes traits pass from one sex to both, or just to the same sex, usually but not always to the same sex. It’s interesting that traits appearing in male animals often get passed down mostly to males. Another important rule is that if a trait shows up at a certain age in a parent, it tends to show up at the same age in the kids, or sometimes earlier. For example, traits in cattle horns only appear when the animal is almost grown, and traits in silkworms show up at the same stage as in the parent. Some diseases also follow this rule. This idea helps explain how unborn babies develop. These points only talk about when the trait first shows up, not about what causes it. For example, when a short-horned cow and a long-horned bull have a calf, the longer horns, which appear later, come from the father’s side.
