The two ideas I mentioned earlier help explain what happens during the later stages of development in our domestic animals. People who breed horses, dogs, and pigeons usually pick animals that are almost fully grown. They don’t really care if the animals got their special traits early or late in life, as long as the grown-up animals have them. The examples I gave, especially with pigeons, show that the important differences that make each breed special usually don’t show up early in life. Instead, these traits appear later and are passed down to the babies at that same later stage. But the short-faced tumbler pigeon is different because it already looks like its breed just 12 hours after hatching. This means its special traits either showed up earlier than usual or were passed down to the babies earlier than normal.

Now, let’s use these facts and ideas to think about species living in the wild. Imagine a group of birds that all come from one original species. Over time, they changed because of natural selection to fit different ways of life. Since these changes appeared later in life and were passed down at the same late stage, the babies of these new bird species will look a lot more alike than the adults do, just like with pigeons. We can think about this for bigger groups too, like families or classes of animals. For example, the front limbs of their ancestor might have been legs, but after many changes, one species might have hands, another paddles, and another wings. Because these changes happen late and are passed on late, the embryos of these different species will still have similar-looking front limbs before they grow up. But when they become adults, their limbs will look very different because of the changes that happen later in life. Using or not using a body part usually changes the adult more than the young animal, and these changes get passed down at the adult stage. The young animals stay mostly the same or change less because they haven’t used their parts as much.

Sometimes, changes might happen very early in life, or be passed down early. In these cases, like with the short-faced tumbler pigeon, the young or embryo looks a lot like the adult parent. This is common in some groups of animals, like cuttlefish, spiders, and some insects like aphids. The reason young in these cases don’t change much or look like their parents right from the start is because two things happen: first, the young have to take care of themselves early on, and second, they live the same way as their parents. So, it’s really important for the babies to develop the same traits early to survive in the same way their parents do.
