Why First Crosses and Hybrids Can Be Sterile — Let’s try to understand why first crosses and hybrids can’t have babies. These two cases are quite different. When two pure species mate, both the male and female parts work perfectly. But in hybrids, these parts don’t work as well.

Even in first crosses, there are several reasons why it might be hard for the male part to reach the female part. Sometimes, it’s physically impossible, like if a plant’s pistil is too long for the pollen tubes to reach the ovary. Also, if pollen from one species lands on a different but related species, the pollen tubes might grow but won’t get through the surface of the stigma. Sometimes, the male part reaches the female part but can’t make an embryo develop, as seen in some experiments on seaweed. We don’t really know why this happens, kind of like why some trees can’t be grafted onto others. Lastly, an embryo might start to grow but then die early on. This early death of embryos might be a big reason why first crosses are sterile. At first, I didn’t believe this because hybrids that are born, like mules, are usually healthy and live long. But before birth, hybrids only get half the support from their mother’s body, so they might face conditions that aren’t perfect, making it hard for them to survive early on. This is especially true since very young creatures are very sensitive to bad conditions.

When it comes to hybrids that have imperfect sexual parts, the situation is different. I’ve found lots of evidence that when animals and plants are taken away from their natural homes, their reproductive systems often get damaged. This is why it’s hard to domesticate some animals. There are many similarities between this kind of sterility and the sterility of hybrids. In both cases, the animals or plants can be healthy overall but still can’t reproduce. Sometimes they even grow bigger or look more lush. The sterility varies in how bad it is, and usually, the males are more affected, but sometimes females are too. Also, groups of related animals or plants often become sterile under the same bad conditions, and groups of species tend to make sterile hybrids. But some species resist changes better and can still reproduce well. We can’t know if an animal will breed in captivity or a plant will grow seeds until we actually try. The same goes for whether two species can make fertile or sterile hybrids. Finally, when living things are kept for many generations in unnatural conditions, they tend to change a lot. I think this happens because their reproductive systems are affected, even if they don’t become sterile. The same thing happens with hybrids, which often change a lot over generations, as many scientists have noticed.
