Bees build their comb in a special way that makes it really strong while using the least amount of wax possible.

At first, it might seem confusing how the cells are made because many bees work together. One bee works on one cell for a little while, then moves to another. As Huber said, about twenty bees can work on the start of just one cell. I showed this by putting a thin layer of colored wax on the edges of a cell or the edge of a growing comb. The bees spread the color gently, like a painter using a brush, by taking tiny bits of the colored wax and mixing it into the edges of the cells around. The bees seem to balance their work by standing at equal distances from each other and building or leaving parts of the cells where their work meets. It was interesting to see that when two parts of the comb meet at an angle, bees sometimes tear down and rebuild the same cell, even going back to a shape they didn’t like at first.

When bees have a good place to stand, like a small piece of wood placed under the middle of a comb that’s growing down, they can start building a new wall of a hexagon in the right spot, sticking out past the other finished cells.

All bees need is to stand at the right distances from each other and from the walls of the finished cells. Then, by imagining spheres, they build a wall between two spheres. But from what I’ve seen, they don’t finish the corners of a cell until most of that cell and the neighboring cells are built. This ability to put down a rough wall between two new cells is important. It helps explain why some wasp-comb cells at the edge are perfectly hexagonal, but I don’t have room here to explain that.

It doesn’t seem hard for one insect, like a queen-wasp, to make hexagonal cells by working inside and outside of a few cells started at the same time. By standing at the right distances and imagining shapes, she can build the walls between them. It’s even possible that an insect could start a cell at one point, then move to five other points around it at the right distances, making an isolated hexagon. But no one has seen this happen, and making just one hexagon wouldn’t be useful because it would need more materials than a simple cylinder shape.

Since natural selection works by small changes that help an animal survive, we might wonder how many small changes in building instincts helped bees make their perfect combs. The answer isn’t hard: bees often struggle to find enough nectar, and I’ve been told by Mr.
