But useful or nice changes in animals and plants only happen sometimes. If you keep a lot of them, the chance of these changes showing up is much higher. This is really important for success. For example, Marshall said that sheep in parts of Yorkshire don’t get better because poor people own only a few sheep each. On the other hand, plant growers who raise many plants usually do better at getting new and valuable types than hobby gardeners.  

To keep many animals or plants in one place, they need good living conditions so they can breed a lot. When there are only a few of a species, all of them are allowed to breed no matter how good or bad they are, which stops selection. But the most important thing is that people must care a lot about small differences in each animal or plant. Without paying close attention, nothing will improve. For example, gardeners noticed strawberries started to have small differences right when they began paying close attention to them. They picked plants with slightly bigger or better fruit and grew new plants from them. By repeating this and sometimes mixing with other species, many great types of strawberries have been made in the last 30 or 40 years.  

For animals that have male and female sexes, being able to stop them from breeding with other types is important to make new breeds, especially where many breeds already live. Fencing land helps with this. People who live in open areas or move around usually have only one breed of an animal. Pigeons mate for life, which helps keep different breeds pure even when they live together. This has helped create many new pigeon breeds. Pigeons also breed quickly and in large numbers, and bad ones can be removed and eaten.  

Cats, however, roam at night and don’t have set mates, so we rarely see pure cat breeds. Most cat breeds come from other countries or islands. Some animals might change less than others, but the lack of different breeds in cats, donkeys, peacocks, and geese is mostly because people don’t carefully choose which ones to breed. For cats, it’s hard to pair them up; for donkeys, few are kept and little care is given to breeding; for peacocks, they are hard to raise in large numbers; and for geese, people only want them for food or feathers and don’t care about having different breeds.  

To sum up about how our domestic animals and plants came to be: I think that living conditions are very important because they affect how animals and plants reproduce and change. I don’t believe that all living things always change by chance, as some have thought. Changes are affected by how traits are passed down and sometimes go back to old types. Many unknown rules control how things grow and change. Some changes happen directly because of living conditions.
