People usually think that small differences between individual animals or plants don’t matter much. But I can show many examples where even important parts of the body can be different in animals or plants of the same kind. I believe that even the most experienced scientists would be surprised by how often important parts can vary, based on the trustworthy information I’ve gathered over many years. It’s important to know that scientists who classify animals don’t like finding differences in important features, and not many are willing to carefully study the important inside parts and compare many examples of the same species.

I never thought that the way the main nerves split near the big central brain of an insect would be different in the same species. I thought changes like that would happen only very slowly. But recently, Mr. Lubbock showed that the main nerves in an insect called Coccus can vary a lot, almost like how tree branches grow in different directions. He also found that the muscles in baby insects aren’t always the same. Some scientists say that important body parts never change, but they often think a part is important only if it doesn’t change. So, they never find examples of important parts changing. But if you look at it from another angle, you can find many examples.

There is one confusing thing about individual differences. Some groups of plants and animals, called "protean" or "polymorphic" groups, show a crazy amount of variation. Scientists often can’t agree which versions should be called different species and which are just varieties. Some examples are Rubus, Rosa, and Hieracium plants, some insect groups, and some Brachiopod shells. In these groups, some species have clear features, but others don’t. These groups act this way in many countries and even in the past. This is puzzling because it seems like this kind of variation doesn’t depend on the environment. I think that in these groups, the differences don’t help or hurt the species, so natural selection hasn’t made these differences permanent, which I will explain later.

Some forms have many features of a species but look very similar to other forms or are connected by in-between types, so scientists don’t want to call them separate species. These are very important for us to study. Many of these unclear forms have kept their unique features in their home places for a long time, as long as true species. Usually, if a scientist can connect two forms using in-between types, they call one a variety of the other, picking the most common or the first named as the species. But sometimes it’s really hard to decide if one form is just a variety of another, even when they are connected by in-between types. Also, guessing that these in-between types are hybrids doesn’t always help. In many cases, one form is called a variety of another not because the in-between types have actually been found, but because scientists think they might exist or might have existed before. This makes room for a lot of doubt and guessing.
