I don’t think all the problems about where related species live in the northern and southern temperate zones and on mountains near the tropics are solved yet. There are still many questions. I can’t say exactly how they moved from place to place or why some species moved and others didn’t. I also don’t know why some changed over time and created new groups, while others stayed the same. We can’t explain these things until we understand why some species easily settle in new places because of humans, and why some live in bigger areas or are more common than others in their own homes.

I said there are still many problems to figure out. Some of the most interesting ones are clearly explained by Dr. Hooker in his studies about plants in the Antarctic regions. I won’t talk about those here. I just want to say that when we find the same species living in faraway places like Kerguelen Land, New Zealand, and Fuegia, I think icebergs helped spread them near the end of the Ice Age, like Lyell suggested. But some species are very different and only found in the south, and it’s hard to believe they moved and changed so much since the Ice Age started.

It seems to me that special, different species spread out from one common center in many directions. I think, like in the northern hemisphere, there was a warmer time before the Ice Age when the Antarctic lands, now covered in ice, had unique and separate plants. Before this plant life was wiped out by the Ice Age, some plants spread to different parts of the southern hemisphere by different ways, like floating on icebergs or using islands that are now underwater as stopping points. Because of this, the southern coasts of America, Australia, and New Zealand share some of the same unusual plants.

Sir C. Lyell also thought about how big climate changes affect where animals and plants live, almost like I do. I believe the world recently went through one of these big changes. When we think about this and natural selection, we can explain many facts about where similar plants and animals live now. It’s like water flowing from the north and south and meeting at the equator, but flowing more from the north and flooding the south. Just like tides leave marks on shores, these “living waters” left plants and animals on mountain tops, going up from the Arctic lowlands to high places under the equator. The animals left behind there are like wild human tribes surviving in mountain areas, showing us who used to live in the lands below.

Chapter XII continues talking about where fresh-water animals live, who lives on ocean islands, why frogs and land mammals are missing there, and how island animals are related to those on the nearest mainland. It also talks about how animals first arrived from nearby places and then changed over time, summarizing the last and current chapters.
