Thirdly, when two or more types of animals or plants form in different parts of a continuous area, it's likely that in the middle zones, there were some in-between types at first, but they usually didn't last long. These middle types existed in smaller numbers than the main types they connected. Because of this, they were more likely to disappear by chance. Also, during natural selection, these in-between types were often outcompeted by the main types, which had bigger populations and more variation. This gave the main types a better chance to improve and survive.

Lastly, if we look at all time, not just one moment, my theory says that many in-between types must have existed, linking all species in the same group closely together. But natural selection tends to wipe out the original forms and the in-between links. So, proof of their past existence can only be found in fossils, which are rare and incomplete, as I will explain later.

Some people ask how, for example, a land carnivore could become an aquatic one. They wonder how the animal survived during the change. But in reality, there are many carnivores that have habits somewhere between fully living in water and fully living on land. Each type survives well because they fit their environment.

Take the North American Mustela vison, for example. It has webbed feet and looks like an otter with its fur, short legs, and tail. In summer, it dives to catch fish, but in winter, when the water freezes, it hunts mice and other land animals like other polecats. If we asked how an insect-eating land animal became a flying bat, it would be much harder to explain, and I wouldn’t have a clear answer. But I don’t think these problems are very important.

I’m at a disadvantage because, even though I have many interesting examples, I can only share a few cases of animals in the same group with habits and body parts in between two extremes. I believe you need many examples like these to make the problem less confusing, like with bats.

Look at squirrels. There is a smooth change from squirrels with only slightly flat tails to flying squirrels. Flying squirrels have skin between their limbs and tail that acts like a parachute, letting them glide far through the air from tree to tree. We can be sure that these differences help each kind of squirrel survive where it lives. They help squirrels avoid predators, find food faster, or avoid getting hurt if they fall.
