On the island of St. Helena, it seems that plants and animals brought from other places have almost wiped out many of the original local species. If you believe that each species was created separately, you’d have to agree that the best plants and animals didn’t originally live on ocean islands. Instead, people have accidentally brought many more species there than nature did on its own.

Ocean islands don’t have many different kinds of animals, but a large number of the species there are unique and found nowhere else in the world. For example, when we look at the unique land snails in Madeira or the special birds in the Galapagos Islands and compare them to a continent, we see that these islands have a much higher percentage of unique species. This fits with my idea that when species arrive after a long time in a new, isolated place, they often change and create many new types.

But just because almost all the species of one group on an island are unique, it doesn’t mean that other groups are unique too. This depends on how easily some species can move to the island and live together without much change. For example, almost every land bird in the Galapagos is unique, but only two out of eleven sea birds are unique. Sea birds can reach these islands more easily than land birds. Bermuda, which is about as far from North America as the Galapagos is from South America and has very different soil, has no unique land birds. Many North American birds visit Bermuda during their yearly migrations.

Madeira doesn’t have any unique birds either, and many European and African birds are blown there almost every year. So, Bermuda and Madeira have birds that have lived together for a long time in their original homes, and when they settle on the islands, they keep their usual habits and don’t change much. Madeira has many unique land snails, but no sea snail species found only there. We don’t know exactly how sea snails spread, but their eggs or babies might travel attached to seaweed, floating wood, or birds, making it easier for them to cross long distances over the ocean than land snails. Different types of insects on Madeira show similar patterns.

Sometimes ocean islands don’t have certain groups of animals, and other animals take their place. For example, reptiles live in the Galapagos instead of mammals, and New Zealand has huge flightless birds instead of mammals. The types of plants on the Galapagos are also very different from other places. People usually say this is because of the island’s environment, but I think how easy it is for species to get there is just as important.

There are many interesting facts about animals and plants on faraway islands. For example, some islands without mammals have plants with hooked seeds. This is amazing because hooked seeds are usually made to stick to the fur of animals with four legs to help them spread.
