When we see changes happening in animals or plants that are raised by people, these changes usually show up again in their babies at the same stage of life. For example, different types of seeds in plants, the stages of caterpillars and cocoons in silkworms, the eggs and baby feathers of chickens, and the horns on sheep and cows when they are almost grown. In nature, natural selection can also work on living things at any age by picking out helpful changes at that age, which get passed down to their young. If it helps a plant to spread its seeds farther by wind, natural selection can make that happen, just like farmers improve cotton by choosing plants with better fibers. Natural selection can change insect larvae in many ways that are different from changes in adult insects. These changes might also affect the adult’s body because everything is connected. For some insects that live only a short time and don’t eat as adults, much of their body is shaped by changes that happened when they were larvae. Similarly, changes in adults can affect their young, but natural selection makes sure that changes at one stage don’t harm the species.

Natural selection will change the young to better fit their parents, and the parents to better fit their young. In animals that live in groups, it will change each individual to help the whole group if the change also helps that individual. But natural selection can’t change one species just to help another species without any benefit for itself. Even though some books say this happens, there’s no real proof. A body part used only once in an animal’s life, but very important, can be changed a lot by natural selection. For example, some insects have big jaws just to open their cocoons, or baby birds have hard beak tips to break out of their eggs. Some say that with very short-beaked pigeons, many die in the egg and people have to help them hatch. If nature had to make pigeons’ beaks very short for their own good, this change would happen slowly, and only the babies with the strongest beaks would survive. Or eggshells might become thinner or thicker, since shells can vary like other body parts.

Sexual Selection — We see that sometimes changes happen only in one sex, like in animals raised by people, and these changes stay in that sex. This probably happens in nature too. So, natural selection can change one sex to work better with the other sex or to fit different ways of living, like some insects do.

Now, about Sexual Selection. This is not about surviving in the wild but about males fighting to get females. The losing males don’t die but usually don’t have babies. So, sexual selection is less tough than natural selection. Usually, the strongest males have the most babies because they are best suited for life. But sometimes winning depends on having special features only males have. A stag without horns or a rooster without spurs wouldn’t have many babies. Sexual selection, by letting winners breed, can create very brave males, longer spurs, and stronger legs for fighting, just like people who breed fighting cocks pick the best ones to improve the breed.
