When different species are crossed, the opposite happens: a plant’s own pollen is always stronger than pollen from another plant. But we will talk more about this later.

For a huge tree covered with many flowers, some might say that pollen rarely moves from one tree to another and mostly just moves between flowers on the same tree. Also, flowers on the same tree aren’t really separate individuals in a strong way. I think this is true, but nature helps with this by making trees often have flowers with separate sexes. Even if the male and female flowers are on the same tree, pollen still moves between flowers, and sometimes it moves between different trees too.

I found that trees in many groups usually have separated sexes more often than other plants. I asked Dr. Hooker to list the trees in New Zealand and Dr. Asa Gray to do the same for the United States, and the results matched what I expected. But Dr. Hooker told me that this doesn’t happen in Australia. I just wanted to point out this interesting fact about tree sexes.

Now, about animals: some land animals like snails and earthworms have both male and female parts (hermaphrodites), but they always mate with another animal. So far, I haven’t found any land animal that fertilizes itself. This is very different from plants and makes sense if we think about how animals live and how fertilization works. Unlike plants, land animals don’t have insects or wind to help carry sperm around, so they need two individuals to reproduce.

In water, many animals can fertilize themselves because water currents help mix sperm and eggs, allowing occasional crossing with others. Also, after talking with an expert, Professor Huxley, I haven’t found any hermaphrodite animal that completely blocks the chance of crossing with others. For a long time, I thought barnacles were different, but I found out that even though they can fertilize themselves, two individuals sometimes cross.

It’s interesting that some animals and plants that are very similar can be either hermaphrodites or have separate sexes. But if hermaphrodites sometimes cross with others, the difference between them and separate-sex species isn’t very big in how they reproduce.

From all this and many facts I’ve studied (which I can’t share here), I think that in both plants and animals, crossing with another individual is a natural rule. I know there are tricky cases I’m still looking into. So, we can say that many living things need to cross with others to reproduce, some only do it rarely, but I don’t think any can keep fertilizing themselves forever.
