I don’t deny that it’s really hard to understand how some animals on faraway islands got there, especially if they look the same or have changed since they arrived. But we shouldn’t forget that many islands might have existed before and acted as stopovers, even though they’re gone now. I’ll give one example of this problem.

Almost all ocean islands, even the smallest and most isolated ones, have land-snails. Usually, these snails only live there, but sometimes they’re found in other places too. Dr. Aug. A. Gould shared some cool examples about land-snails on Pacific islands. We know land-snails don’t survive saltwater well, and their eggs sink and die in the sea.

Still, there must be some unknown but strong way they travel.

Maybe baby snails stick to birds’ feet when the birds rest on the ground and get carried away? I thought land-snails might float on pieces of wood drifting across the sea, especially when they’re hibernating with a special membrane covering their shell opening. I found some snails could survive being underwater in sea-water for seven days without harm. One snail, Helix pomatia, even survived 20 days underwater and came back fine.

This snail has a thick shell cover called an operculum. I took it off, waited for the snail to grow a new soft cover, then put it underwater for 14 days. It still survived and moved around afterward. But I need to do more tests on this.

The most interesting thing about island animals is that they’re closely related to animals on the nearest mainlands, but they’re not exactly the same species. There are many examples of this. I’ll give one about the Galapagos Islands, near the equator and 500 to 600 miles from South America. Almost everything there, on land and in water, clearly shows it’s connected to America.

There are 26 land birds, and 25 of these are different species that seem to have started there. But these birds act, look, and sound a lot like American birds. This is true for other animals and most plants too, as Dr. Hooker explained in his study of the Galapagos plants. When you look at these volcanic islands far from the mainland, it feels like you’re on American land.

Why is this? Why do species that seem to have started in the Galapagos still show strong ties to America? The islands’ environment, geology, height, climate, and animal groups don’t really match the South American coast. Actually, the Galapagos islands are more like the Cape de Verde Islands in things like soil, climate, and size. But their animals and plants are totally different.

The Cape de Verde Islands’ animals are related to Africa, just like Galapagos animals relate to America. I don’t think we can explain this if we believe species were created independently everywhere. But if we think the Galapagos got their animals from America—either by chance or because the land was once connected—and the Cape de Verde got theirs from Africa, it makes sense. These animals then changed over time but still show where they first came from.
