There is some evidence from studying the Earth that simpler living things in each big group usually change more slowly than the more complex ones. Because of this, simpler creatures have had a better chance to spread out widely and still stay the same species. Also, many simple creatures have tiny seeds or eggs that can travel far, which probably explains a rule seen in plants: the simpler the group, the more likely they are to be found in many places.

The ideas just talked about—like simple and slow-changing creatures spreading more than complex ones, some species in widely spread groups also spreading far, and how plants and animals living in very different places like mountains, lakes, and marshes are still related to those nearby on dry land—all these facts make no sense if we think each species was created separately. But they do make sense if we think species moved from nearby places and then changed to fit their new homes.

To sum up the last chapters, I’ve tried to show that if we remember how little we know about past climate changes, land changes, and ways living things can travel (which scientists haven’t tested enough), plus how species might have lived across big areas but died out in the middle, then it’s not impossible to believe all members of the same species came from the same ancestors. Many scientists call this the idea of “single centers of creation,” based on things like barriers and how related groups of species are spread out.

About different species in the same group, which my idea says came from one original source, if we keep in mind our lack of knowledge and that some life forms change very slowly over long times, I think it’s possible for them to have spread out, even though it can be very hard to explain sometimes.

To show how climate changes affected where species live, I talked about the Ice Age, which I believe happened all over the world at the same time or at least in big areas. I also explained some ways that fresh-water creatures can travel long distances.

If it’s not too hard to accept that over a long time, all individuals of the same species and related species came from one source, then I think the main facts about where species live can be explained by migration (mostly of stronger life forms), followed by changes and the creation of new species.
