To put it simply: the traits that all species in a group share, and that make them different from species in other groups, are called generic characters. I think these shared traits come from a common ancestor because it’s unlikely that natural selection would change many species with different lifestyles in exactly the same way. These generic characters have been passed down for a long time since the species first split from their common ancestor, and they haven’t changed much, so they probably won’t change much now.

On the other hand, the traits that make species different from each other within the same group are called specific characters. Since these specific characters have changed since the species split from their common ancestor, it’s likely they still change sometimes — at least more than the parts of the body that have stayed the same for a long time.

About this topic, I want to mention two more things. First, secondary sexual characters (like things used to attract mates) are very changeable. Second, species in the same group often differ more in these sexual traits than in other body parts. For example, male birds like chickens show more differences in their sexual traits than females do. We don’t fully understand why these sexual traits change so much, but sexual selection (where some males get more mates) is less strict than natural selection because it doesn’t kill animals, it just means some males have fewer offspring. Because these sexual traits change a lot, sexual selection can work strongly on them, causing species in the same group to differ more in these traits than in other body parts.

It’s interesting that the sexual differences between males and females of the same species usually happen in the same body parts where different species of the same group differ from each other. I’ll give two examples. In some beetles, the number of leg joints is usually the same for big groups, but in one group, it varies a lot and also differs between males and females of the same species. In some wasps that dig, the wing veins are very important and usually the same in big groups, but in some smaller groups, wing veins vary between species and between sexes. This shows that species in the same group come from the same ancestor, just like the males and females of one species come from the same parents.

So, any part of the ancestor’s body that could change likely did, and natural and sexual selection used these changes to help species fit their roles in nature. This also helped males and females fit with each other or gave males ways to compete for females.
