Sometimes we can understand why one tree won’t grow well when joined to another. It might be because they grow at different speeds, have different wood hardness, or their sap flows differently. But in many cases, we just don’t know why. Even when two plants are very different—like one with wood and one that’s soft, or one that keeps leaves all year and one that loses them—they can still be joined together. Just like with making hybrids, whether trees can be joined depends on how closely related they are. You can’t join trees from completely different families, but closely related species or varieties usually can be joined, though not always.

Many different types of plants within the same family have been joined, but sometimes species in the same group won’t join well. For example, pears join more easily to quince trees, which are in a different group, than to apple trees, which are in the same group as pears. Even different types of pears join differently to quince trees. The same goes for different kinds of apricots and peaches joining to certain plums.

Scientists like Gartner found that some individual plants of the same two species are better at crossing than others. Sagaret thinks the same is true for joining plants together. Sometimes one way works better than the reverse. For example, you can’t join a gooseberry onto a currant, but you can join a currant onto a gooseberry, though it’s hard.

We know that hybrids are often sterile because their reproductive parts don’t work right. That’s different from the trouble of joining two normal species that have perfect reproductive parts. But there are some similar patterns. For example, Thouin found that three types of Robinia trees, which grow seeds easily on their own roots and join well with other species, became sterile when joined to those other species. On the other hand, some Sorbus species produced twice as much fruit when joined to other species than when on their own roots. This reminds us of plants like Hippeastrum and Lobelia, which made more seeds when pollinated by different species than by themselves.

So, even though joining plants together (grafting) and mixing their reproductive parts (crossing) are very different, they show some similar results. The rules about how easily trees can be joined depend on unknown differences in their growth systems. The rules about crossing depend on unknown differences in their reproductive systems. These differences mostly follow how closely related the plants are, which shows how similar or different living things are. I don’t think the difficulty of joining or crossing plants was specially created for a purpose. But in crossing, this difficulty is important for keeping species stable, while in grafting, it doesn’t really matter for the plants’ survival.
