We can easily see this with animals that have simple habits. Take a meat-eating animal that walks on four legs, for example. The number of these animals that can live in a country has usually reached its limit. If they are allowed to have babies naturally, they can only increase if their offspring change and take over places now used by other animals. Some might learn to eat different kinds of food, like dead or new prey. Some might live in new places, like climbing trees or going near water. Others might even eat less meat. The more different habits and bodies these animals have, the more places they can live. This idea works for all animals over time, as long as they change a bit. If they don’t change, natural selection can’t work. The same happens with plants.

Experiments show that if you plant different kinds of grasses together, more plants grow and there is more dry grass. The same happens when you plant one type of wheat or many mixed types of wheat in the same area. So, if one grass species keeps changing, and the best different types are chosen, more plants of that grass and its new versions can live in one place. Each grass species and variety makes tons of seeds every year and tries hard to increase its numbers. Because of this, after thousands of generations, the most different types of one grass species will have the best chance to survive and grow, replacing the less different types. When varieties become very different, they become their own species.

The idea that more life can live where there is a big variety of shapes and types is seen in many natural places. In a very small area that is open to new species coming in, where animals and plants compete a lot, we find many different kinds of living things. For example, I found a small patch of grass just three by four feet that had twenty different plant species, from eighteen groups and eight bigger groups, showing how different they were. This is true for plants and insects on small islands and in small ponds too. Farmers know that they can grow the most food by rotating plants from very different groups. Nature does something like this all at once. Most animals and plants living near a small patch of ground could live there, but where they compete closely, those with different shapes, habits, and bodies usually belong to different big groups.

We also see this idea when people bring plants to new countries. You might think that plants that succeed in new places would be closely related to the local plants because those local plants seem specially made for that land. You might also expect these new plants to be from a few groups that fit well in their new homes.
