Tegetmeier found out through experiments that bees need to use about twelve to fifteen pounds of dry sugar to make just one pound of wax. This means bees have to collect and eat a huge amount of nectar to produce enough wax to build their honeycombs. Also, many bees have to rest for several days while the wax is being made.

Bees need to store a lot of honey to survive the winter, and having a big group of bees is important for keeping the hive safe. So, saving wax by saving honey is really important for a bee family to do well. Of course, how well a type of bee does might also depend on things like parasites or enemies, not just how much honey they can gather.

But let's imagine that the amount of honey does decide how many bumblebees can live in a place, and that these bees need to store honey for winter. In this case, it would help the bumblebees if they made their wax cells close together, even sharing walls, because that would save some wax.

Because of this, it would be better for bumblebees to make their cells more regular, closer, and packed together like the cells of the Melipona bee. This way, many walls would be shared between cells, saving a lot of wax. Also, if Melipona bees made their cells even closer and more regular, they would replace round surfaces with flat ones, making their comb just as perfect as the hive-bee’s comb.

After reaching this level of perfection, natural selection couldn’t improve the comb anymore because the hive-bee’s comb uses wax as efficiently as possible.

So, I think the amazing instinct of the hive-bee can be explained by natural selection. Small changes over time made the bees build their wax cells in a very smart way, sweeping out equal-sized spheres at the right distance, and shaping the wax where the spheres meet. The bees don’t actually know the math behind it, like the exact shapes or angles, but natural selection made sure that the bees that wasted the least honey making wax did the best. These bees passed on their smart wax-saving habits to their offspring, who were better at surviving.

Of course, some instincts are hard to explain with natural selection. There are cases where we don’t see how an instinct started, or where no steps between simple and complex instincts are known. Some instincts seem too small to matter, and some are almost the same in very different animals, which can’t be explained by shared ancestors and must have evolved independently. I won’t discuss all these cases now, but I will focus on one big problem that almost made me doubt my whole theory.
