If you take all the plants in a country and split them into two groups—one with plants from big groups called genera, and the other with plants from smaller groups—you’ll find that more common and widespread species are usually in the big groups. This makes sense because if many species of the same group live in a place, it means the environment suits that group well. So, bigger groups tend to have more dominant species.

However, some things make this pattern less clear. For example, freshwater and saltwater plants often spread widely, but this is because of where they live, not how big their group is. Also, simpler plants usually spread more than more complex ones, but this doesn’t relate much to group size. We’ll talk about why simpler plants spread more later.

I thought that species in bigger groups would also have more varieties because if there are many related species, it means conditions helped them change and form new types. Like a forest with many big trees will also have lots of saplings. But if species were created separately without connection, there’s no reason for bigger groups to have more varieties.

To check this, I studied plants from twelve countries and beetles from two areas. I split them into big groups and small groups again. It turned out that species in big groups had more varieties than those in small groups. Also, species in big groups usually had more varieties on average. This stayed true even when I left out the smallest groups with only one to four species.

These findings support the idea that species are just well-marked, lasting varieties. When many species of one group exist, it means the process of making new species is still happening, even though it’s slow. So, species with lots of related kinds tend to have many varieties, or “new species in progress.” But it’s not that all big groups are always growing or all small groups are not changing. If that were true, my theory would be wrong because we know from fossils that small groups have grown over time and big groups have sometimes shrunk or disappeared.
