Because we don’t know much about the geology of places outside Europe and the United States, and because new fossil discoveries have changed many ideas in the last twelve years, it seems really risky to be sure about how living things appeared in order all over the world. It’s like a scientist visiting a small, empty area in Australia for just five minutes and then trying to explain all the animals that live there.

There is another big problem. Many species from the same group suddenly show up in the oldest fossil rocks we know about.

Most of the reasons that make me believe all species in a group came from one ancestor also apply to the oldest species we’ve found.

For example, I’m sure all Silurian trilobites came from one crustacean that lived long before the Silurian period and probably looked very different from any animal we know. Some of the oldest Silurian animals, like Nautilus and Lingula, look a lot like animals alive today. According to my idea, these old species didn’t give rise to all the species in their groups because they don’t have features that are in-between. Also, if they had been the ancestors, they would have been replaced and wiped out by their newer and better descendants.

So, if my idea is right, a very long time passed before the lowest Silurian layer formed—maybe as long or even longer than the time from the Silurian period to now. During that lost time, the world must have been full of living creatures.

Why don’t we find fossils from that huge time? I don’t have a good answer. Some top geologists, like Sir R. Murchison, believe the oldest Silurian fossils show the very beginning of life on Earth. But others, like Lyell and the late E. Forbes, disagree.

We should remember that we only know some parts of the world well. M. Barrande recently found an even older Silurian layer with new and strange species. Signs of life were also found below Barrande’s so-called earliest zone. Some chemical clues in the oldest rocks might show that life existed then. But it’s very hard to explain why huge amounts of fossil layers from before the Silurian period are missing. If these oldest layers were completely worn away or changed by heat and pressure, we should only find small pieces of the layers after them, and those pieces should be mostly changed too. But descriptions of Silurian rocks in huge areas of Russia and North America don’t support the idea that older layers are always more worn away or changed.
