Whenever someone came to us wanting to buy the company, I would always say, “We are not for sale.” It was a good answer because I wasn’t ready to sell, but it also left some chance for a very eager buyer. Saying “not for sale” didn’t mean we wouldn’t listen to offers—it just meant we weren’t trying to sell right then. So, when EMC hinted they wanted to buy us, I didn’t think much about it. Our stock was about $6.50 per share, and I wasn’t planning to sell for that price. But this time, news about the offer got out to the press, and the stock jumped to $9.50 per share. This changed things, especially since the stock was going up for reasons that weren’t really good.

The more the stock price went up, the more companies wanted to buy us. Over the next month, eleven companies showed interest.

Because the business was uncertain and the potential profits looked good, we couldn’t ignore their interest.

To start, John and I called Michael Ovitz for advice. We thought one possible buyer, Oracle, wouldn’t offer a high price because they were very careful with money. We told Michael this and asked if we should even try with Oracle. His answer was priceless: “Well, boys, if you’re going to have a dog race, you’re going to need a rabbit. And Oracle will be one hell of a rabbit.” Using that idea, we got many bids, all between $10 and $11 per share. The highest ones were 38% more than the current stock price. Even though this was a good deal, I didn’t feel right selling the company for $11 per share. The team worked too hard, we had done too much, and we were a great company. Staying on our own was risky, but I still wanted to believe in the team. I told the board not to sell.

The board was surprised but they supported me. Still, they had a duty to ask tough questions. “If you won’t sell at $11 per share, is there any price you would sell for?” I had to think hard about that. I promised the team that if we became the number one company in a big market, we wouldn’t sell. We were number one, but how big was the market? Did the team really want to keep going, or was it just me? How could I know without freaking out the company? So, I started having long talks with myself.

It was a fight inside my head, me against me. On one side, I said virtualization was making virtual servers explode, so what we did was more important than ever. But then I thought...
