I was making $1 million a month and had a two-year contract that was guaranteed. I was in a meeting with Deb Casados, my vice president of human resources, but I said, “Put him through.” The guy then told me that Atriax was bankrupt and couldn’t pay the $25 million they owed us. It felt like the world stopped spinning. I just sat there, stunned, until I heard Deb say, “Ben, Ben, Ben, do you want to have this meeting later?” I said, “Yep.” Then I slowly walked to my CFO’s office to see how bad things really were. It was worse than I thought.

Because losing that contract was such a big deal, we couldn’t raise money without first telling people we’d lost our biggest customer and $25 million from our financial plan. We stopped our PIPE road show and then put out a press release. The stock price dropped by 50 percent right away, and with our company value quickly shrinking to $160 million, we couldn’t raise the $50 million we needed. Our plan, which was already $50 million short of breaking even, was now $75 million short, and there was no way to fix it. Loudcloud was doomed. I had to use Oxide.

This was a tricky situation because 440 out of our 450 employees worked in the cloud business. That business was all of our customers and made 100 percent of our money. I couldn’t tell the employees or even my executive team that I was thinking about quitting the cloud business because our stock price would have crashed, and that would have ruined any chance of selling the company or avoiding bankruptcy.

The one person I trusted and needed was John O’Farrell. John ran business and corporate development, but more than that, he was the best person I’d ever known for closing big deals. To explain, imagine you were a religious person, and you were about to face judgment for all eternity. You get to pick one person to argue for you. If it were me, I’d pick John O’Farrell, that Irish guy.

I told John we had to start a backup plan right away. It would be just the two of us at first, and everyone else needed to focus on slowing down Loudcloud’s spending. Then I called Bill Campbell to explain why I thought we needed to leave the cloud business.

Bill knew what a crisis looked like since he had been CEO of GO Corporation in the early 1990s. Back then, GO tried to build something like an iPhone in 1992 but ended up being one of the biggest venture capital failures.
