If our stock price stayed below a dollar, the stock exchange would “delist” us and send us to the bad place called penny stocks. The board talked about how to fix this—like doing a reverse stock split or buying back stocks—but I thought we just needed to tell our story. The story was simple. We had a great team, $60 million in the bank, a $20 million a year contract with EDS, and some important intellectual property. Unless I was the worst CEO ever, we should be worth more than $30 million. The story caught on, and the stock went above $1 a share.

Next, I had to deliver a product. Opsware was made to run Loudcloud and only Loudcloud. It wasn’t ready for everyone yet. Parts of the code were connected only to machines in our building. Plus, the user interface wasn’t polished. The part that managed the network was called the Jive and had a purple pimp hat on the front page.

Project Oxide gave us a good start, but the engineers were worried. They gave me a long list of features they thought we needed before going to market. They pointed out that competitors had more finished products.

As I listened, I realized the features they wanted were all based on Loudcloud’s needs. Even though it was tough, I knew we had to enter the wider market to understand it better and build the right product. Weirdly, the only way to do that was to launch and try to sell the wrong product first. We would fail, but we’d learn fast and do what was needed to survive.

Finally, I had to rebuild the executive team. Our CFO didn’t know software accounting, the head of sales had never sold software, and the head of marketing didn’t know our market. They were all great at their old jobs, but not right for these new roles. It was hard but necessary to let them go.

The strategy and the team came together, and the business started working.

We began signing customers regularly, and our stock price rose from $0.35 to over $7 a share. It felt like we were finally safe.

Of course, I was wrong.

SIXTY DAYS TO LIVE A few quarters into Opsware, we got very bad news from our biggest customer, EDS. Saying “biggest customer” doesn’t even cover it; EDS made up 90% of our revenue. And they were not happy. Their Opsware setup...
