After Microsoft was declared a monopoly, the stock market dropped even more. Startups lost a lot of value, investors lost a lot of money, and dot-com companies, once seen as the future of the economy, went out of business almost overnight and became known as dot-bombs. The NASDAQ stock index fell below 1,200, which was an 80% drop from its highest point.

At that time, we thought our business might be growing faster than any other ever. That was the good news. The bad news was that we needed to raise even more money in this terrible situation. Almost all of the $66 million we had raised before was already spent on building the best cloud service and supporting our growing customers.

The dot-com crash scared investors, so it wasn’t going to be easy to raise money, especially since most of our customers were dot-com startups. This became clear when we pitched to the Japanese company Softbank Capital. My friend Bill Campbell, who was on our board, knew Softbank well and said he would try to get some secret feedback after the pitch. When my assistant told me Bill was on the phone, I quickly answered, eager to hear the news.

I asked, “Bill, what did they say?” Bill replied in his rough, coach-like voice, “Ben, honestly, they thought you were crazy.” With almost 300 employees and very little cash left, I felt like I was going to die. That was the first time I felt that way as CEO of Loudcloud, but it wouldn’t be the last.

During this time, I learned the most important rule about raising money privately: you only need one investor to say yes, so don't worry about the other thirty who say no. We finally found investors for our third round of funding, called Series C, at an amazing $700 million valuation and raised $120 million. We forecasted $100 million in sales for the quarter, and things seemed like they might be okay. I believed our sales forecasts would be right because we had done better than expected before. I even hoped we could switch our customers from failing dot-coms to more stable ones like Nike, our biggest customer then.

And then everything fell apart.

We finished the third quarter of 2000 with only $37 million in sales bookings—not the $100 million we expected. The dot-com crash turned out to be way worse than we thought.
