I told Bill my thinking: The only way to get out of the cloud business without going broke was to sell a lot more. Even if we fired every employee, the costs to keep everything running would still be too high without more sales. I also explained that having less money made customers lose trust, which made sales go down, and then we lost even more money. Bill just said “spiral,” and I knew he got it.

John and I looked at the market to find companies that might want to buy Loudcloud. Sadly, many possible buyers were in bad shape too. Big telecom companies like Qwest and WorldCom were involved in fraud scandals, and Exodus had already gone bankrupt. So, we focused on the three most likely buyers: IBM, Cable & Wireless, and EDS.

IBM’s hosting business, led by the friendly Jim Corgel, was very interested right away. Jim liked the Loudcloud brand and our tech skills. EDS, however, wasn’t interested, which worried me a lot. I looked at all their public info and saw that EDS actually needed Loudcloud more than IBM did. In deals like this, who needs something more usually wins over who just wants it. John told me, “Ben, I think we should stop chasing EDS and focus on the better chances.” I asked him to draw EDS’s company chart again to see if we missed anyone important to talk to.

When he did, I asked, “Who’s Jeff Kelly?” John thought about it and said, “We haven’t talked to Jeff yet, but he might be the one who can decide.” Sure enough, Jeff was interested. Now with two possible buyers, we got things moving fast because time was running out. We showed both IBM and EDS around our offices, sometimes catching them passing each other in the hall, which was part of John’s smart sales plan. The last step was to set a deadline to finish everything. John and I talked about how to do this since the deadlines we made up weren’t real. I suggested we stop in Los Angeles on the way to Plano, Texas, where EDS is based, to get advice from Michael Ovitz.

Michael was on Loudcloud’s board, but more importantly, he was once called the Most Powerful Man in Hollywood. When he was twenty-eight, he started a talent agency called Creative Artists Agency (CAA), which grew huge in the entertainment world. Michael became so powerful that he could make deals happen that no one else had before.
