Your startup is doing well, and as your business grows, someone on your board might say, "You need to hire some senior people. Real ‘been there, done that’ executives to help take the company to the next level."

But is now the right time? If yes, where do you start? And once you hire them, what do you do with them? How will you know if they are doing a good job?

The first question you might ask is, "Why do I need senior people at all? Won’t they just mess up the culture with their fancy clothes, political games, and wanting to go home early to see their families?"

To some degree, the answer might be "yes," which is why you have to think about this carefully.

However, hiring the right experienced people at the right time can be the difference between failing and succeeding big time.

Let’s go back to the first question: why hire a senior person? The short answer is time. In a tech startup, from the moment you start until the end, you are racing against time. No tech startup lasts forever. Even the best ideas stop being good after a while.

Think about Facebook—how would it do if Mark Zuckerberg started it just last week? At Netscape, we went public after only fifteen months. If we had started six months later, we would have been too late, competing with thirty-seven other browser companies.

Even if no one beats you to the market, no matter how great your dream is, most employees will lose hope if you don’t succeed after five or six years.

Hiring someone who has already done what you’re trying to do can speed up your success a lot.

But CEOs, be careful: hiring senior people in a startup is like an athlete taking performance-enhancing drugs. If it works, you reach amazing heights. If it doesn’t, you start falling apart from inside.

To make it work, don’t just hire someone because you want “adult supervision” or to “look like a real company.” If you don’t know exactly what you need, it will end badly. The real reason to hire a senior person is to get their knowledge and experience.
