When I started as the first CEO, I was really excited to meet our money backers and talk about how we could work together to build a great company. But things got worse fast when one of the top investors, David Beirne, asked me in front of my cofounders, “When are you going to get a real CEO?” That hit me hard. Our biggest investor basically called me a fake CEO in front of my team. I asked, “What do you mean?” hoping he would take it back so I wouldn’t look bad. Instead, he said, “Someone who has built a big company before, knows important executives, has ready customers, and really knows what they’re doing.” I felt like I couldn’t breathe. It was bad enough that he questioned me, but the worst part was I knew he was kinda right. I didn’t have those skills. I hadn’t done those things. I didn’t know those people. I was the CEO who started the company, not a professional CEO. I could almost hear time ticking away, wondering if I could learn fast enough or if I would lose the company. That question haunted me for months.

After that, I stayed CEO, for better or worse. I worked super hard to become the kind of CEO everyone expected. With a lot of effort and help from friends and mentors, especially Bill Campbell, the company made it through and became successful and valuable.

But not a day went by when I didn’t think about that moment with David Beirne. I always wondered how long it would take me to grow up and how I could get help to build my skills and make the right connections.

Marc and I talked about this a lot. We asked why founders had to prove so much to investors that they could run the company, instead of investors just trusting that we would run the company we created. This idea ended up inspiring Andreessen Horowitz.

To start, we studied the venture capital world and found a problem. Almost all the profits in venture capital came from just a tiny number of firms, and it was mostly the same few firms all the time. Out of more than 800 venture capital firms back then, only about six had really made great returns for their investors. When we looked deeper, we found a good reason for this: The best entrepreneurs only want to work with the best venture capital firms.
