Ben said, “I don’t think we should do the Data Return deal.”  
John asked, “Why not?”  
Ben answered, “Honestly, both our business and their business are struggling, and putting them together will just make things worse.”  
John said, “I was thinking the same thing.”  

Looking closely at Data Return’s business made it clear to me that Loudcloud probably wouldn’t last. Sometimes, it’s easier to see problems in others than in yourself. Seeing Data Return’s problems showed me Loudcloud’s future, and it wasn’t good. I had a hard time sleeping because I kept thinking about what might happen. I tried to feel better by asking, “What’s the worst thing that could happen?” The answer was always the same: “We’d go bankrupt, I’d lose everyone's money, including my mom’s, I’d have to fire all the hardworking employees during a tough economy, all the customers who trusted me would feel let down, and my reputation would be ruined.” But asking that question never made me feel better.

Then one day, I asked myself a different question: “What would I do if we went bankrupt?” The answer surprised me: “I’d buy our software, Opsware, out of bankruptcy and start a software company.” Opsware was the software we made to run Loudcloud, handling things like setting up servers, managing networks, launching apps, and fixing problems if something went wrong. Then I asked, “Is there a way to do that without going bankrupt?” I thought about different plans where we could switch to the software business and leave the cloud business. Every plan started with separating Opsware from Loudcloud. Opsware was built only to work with Loudcloud and had many limits that stopped it from working anywhere else. I asked my cofounder and CTO, Tim Howes, how long it would take to separate Opsware from Loudcloud. He said about nine months, which was actually a bit too hopeful. I immediately put together a team of ten engineers to start the work, calling the project Oxide.

At this point, our company was still focused on the cloud business, and I didn’t tell anyone else about my new ideas. If I had, it would have killed the current business because everyone would want to work on the future, not the present. So, I told everyone Oxide was just another product line.

This worried two of my employees who had graduated from Stanford Business School. They set up a meeting and talked to me.
