He wanted to set up another meeting to explain how to train salespeople to be the best in many areas like the process, products, and how to sell well within a company. He also said that even with all that, a good sales leader has to get the team to feel brave and confident.

He sounded like a strong leader, like General Patton. I knew he was the right person.

But nobody else agreed. Almost everyone on the executive team and board of directors said no to Mark Cranney. When I asked Bill Campbell what he thought, he said, “I won’t stop you from hiring Cranney.” That wasn’t the support I wanted. The reasons people said no weren’t because Mark was weak, but because they thought he had too many flaws: Mark went to Southern Utah, and he made people uncomfortable.

Mark didn’t look like a typical sales leader.

Still, the more time I spent with him, the more I felt he was the one. Talking with him for an hour taught me more about sales than I had learned in six months of running sales. He even called me with details about deals my sales team was working on—deals my own reps didn’t seem to know about. It was like he had his own secret sales team.

I decided to stand up for him. I told my team and the board that I understood their worries, but I still wanted to go ahead with Mark and planned to check his references.

When I asked Mark for references, he surprised me again. He gave me a list of seventy-five people. He said he had even more if I needed them. I called every one, and each called me back within an hour. Mark had a strong network. Maybe these references were his secret sales team. Then, just when I was ready to hire him, another executive told me that her friend knew Mark and wanted to give a bad reference.

I called the friend—I’ll call him Joe—and had the strangest reference call of my life:

Ben: “Thanks for reaching out.”

Joe: “No problem.”

Ben: “How do you know Mark Cranney?”

Joe: “Mark was an area vice president when I taught sales training at my old job. I want to tell you that you should never hire Mark Cranney.”

Ben: “Wow, that’s a strong opinion. Did he do something wrong?”

Joe: “No, I’ve never seen Mark do anything dishonest.”
