If we banned swearing, some workers who use it might not want to work for us or might quit because we’d seem old-fashioned and boring.

If we allowed swearing, some people might still leave.

I was biased because I was the one who swore the most.

After thinking a lot, I saw that top tech companies like Intel and Microsoft had lots of swearing, so if we stopped it, we’d be different from them and most of the modern tech world.

That didn’t mean we had to encourage swearing, but banning it seemed unrealistic and not helpful. To get the best engineers, we needed to hire people from places where swearing was normal. The choice was clear: get the best talent or have a super clean culture. Easy decision.

I chose to keep the swearing, but I also needed to explain why. People had complained and taken the issue to higher-ups, so they deserved to know. Explaining it was tricky because swearing isn’t okay in every situation. We couldn’t allow swearing to scare or harass anyone, especially not sexually. I had to make this clear. Allowing swearing only sometimes was a hard message to explain.

That night, I watched an old movie from the 1970s called Short Eyes. It told a disturbing story about a child molester in prison who faced a strict rule: child molestors must be punished by death. One character was a young guy called “Cupcakes.” It was hard to believe, but watching that movie helped me find my answer.

The next day, I gave this speech at the company meeting: “I’ve heard that many people don’t like how much we swear. Since I’m the biggest swearer, these complaints made me think about my own actions and the company. We have two options: (a) ban swearing or (b) accept it. Trying to have ‘just a little swearing’ won’t work. I’ve said before that we can’t succeed unless we get the very best people. In tech, almost everyone comes from places where swearing is normal. So banning swearing will probably stop us from hiring the best people. That’s why we will allow swearing. But this doesn’t mean you can use swearing to scare, harass, or hurt anyone. In this...”
