First, start by clearly explaining what each job level is responsible for and what skills are needed to do those jobs well.

When talking about skills, don’t just use vague phrases like “must be good at managing money” or “must have great management skills.” The best systems are very specific and even mention real people as examples, like “should be as good at hiring as Jenny Rogers.” Next, set up a clear process for promotions. One important rule is that promotions should be fair across all departments. If only one manager or group decides on promotions, you might end up with too many top positions in one area and not enough in another. To avoid this, have a regular promotions group that reviews every big promotion in the company.

When a manager wants to promote someone, they submit that person for review and explain why they think the employee meets the skill requirements. The group then compares the employee’s skills to the level’s description and to others at that level before deciding if the promotion is okay. This process helps keep things fair and also lets all managers learn about the skills and work of different employees.

ANDREESSEN VS. ZUCKERBERG: HOW BIG SHOULD THE TITLES BE?

Should your company have big titles like Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Revenue Officer, Chief People Officer, or even Chief Snack Officer? There are two different opinions on this, one from Marc Andreessen and the other from Mark Zuckerberg.

Andreessen thinks people want many things from a company like salary, bonuses, stock options, control over people, and titles. Since titles don’t cost anything, it’s smart to give out the highest titles possible. The company should have Presidents, Chiefs, and Senior Executive Vice Presidents. If giving big titles makes people feel good, why not? It also helps when trying to hire new people because you can offer better titles than other companies.

At Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg does things differently. He uses much lower titles than most other companies. Senior Vice Presidents at other companies are called something else at Facebook.
