Sometimes, people make mistakes when choosing an executive. They don’t pick someone with the right, important qualities needed for the job.

Often, people hire someone just because they don’t have big weaknesses, instead of hiring someone with strong skills. This happens a lot when a group hires by agreeing on who has no major flaws. But they forget to focus on the areas where the executive really needs to be excellent. So, they end up with someone who isn’t bad, but also isn’t great where it counts. If you don’t have top skills where you need them, your company won’t be top either.

Another mistake is hiring someone for a bigger role than needed too early. Venture capitalists and recruiters often tell CEOs to hire people who can handle a big company, thinking about the future. That’s good only if your company is already big or ready to grow fast.

If your company isn’t growing fast yet, you need someone who can do the job well right now, for the next year or so. If you hire someone who will only be good later, the company might not accept them before they get a chance to prove themselves. Other workers may ask why they were given stock options if they aren’t helping now. This kind of doubt is hard to fix. Venture capitalists and recruiters aren’t dumb; they just learned the wrong lesson before.

To get it right, you have to understand the special cases of growing big and growing fast, which I will explain later.

Also, don’t hire for a general role. There isn’t one perfect CEO, marketing head, or sales head for every company. There is only a perfect person for your company, for the next year or two.

That job won’t be the same as the same role at big companies like Microsoft or Facebook.

Don’t expect to find someone perfect like they come from a movie.

Sometimes, an executive wants the job for the wrong reasons. I will explain in chapter 6 the difference between wanting success for the company and wanting it just for oneself. If an executive has the wrong kind of ambition, even if they have skills, the company might not accept them.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
