Investors and buyers Being venture capitalists, giving money was an obvious part of what we did.

After we set up the firm, we needed to help entrepreneurs see how we were different. This was hard because no big venture capital firm did any marketing at all. We thought there must be a good reason for this but couldn’t figure it out. Finally, Marc found out that the first venture capital firms back in the late 1940s and early ’50s were copied from old investment banks like J.P. Morgan and Rothschild. Those banks didn’t do PR for a special reason: they funded wars—and sometimes both sides of the same war—so they didn’t want publicity. This idea, along with our plan to do the opposite of what the big guys did, made us start Andreessen Horowitz with a lot of attention. When picking a name, the biggest problem was that we were unknown. No history, no companies, nothing. But people knew us, especially Marc. So I said, “Instead of making a new brand, why not just use your name?” Marc agreed, but no one would ever spell “Andreessen Horowitz” right when typing the website address. Thinking back to old computer programming, where we had to “internationalize” code, we called that I18N (I plus 18 letters plus N). So we decided the firm’s nickname would be “a16z,” meaning a plus 16 letters plus z.

We hired the Outcast marketing agency, run by its strong leader, Margit Wennmachers, to get media attention. We wanted people to know who we were since we chose to go against the usual no-PR rule in venture capital. Margit, whose family farmed pigs in Germany, was nothing like a pig farmer. She was smart and polished, the Babe Ruth of PR. She used her contacts to get a cover story in Fortune magazine in 2009, showing Marc dressed as Uncle Sam. Andreessen Horowitz became famous overnight, even though Marc and I were still the only two people in the firm.

After eight years running Loudcloud and Opsware, I learned a lot of tough lessons that made building the team easy. I knew how important it was to hire people for their strengths, not just because they didn’t have weaknesses. I also understood what “fit” means. There are many smart people in the world, but smart is not enough.
