Rachleff said that investors didn’t think reverse splits were so bad anymore because there were so many of them. Marc guessed that being taken off the stock list might not matter much now since people don’t read newspapers like before.

But I didn’t want to do a reverse split. It felt like giving up and showing weakness. Doing a reverse split would tell everyone that I thought the company was only worth half the cash we had. I also didn’t want the company to get removed from the stock list. I knew Marc would be right someday, but I also knew many big investors weren’t allowed to buy cheap stocks. So, I decided to go out and meet people.

The first big question was, “Who should I go see?” Back then, most big investors wouldn’t buy stocks priced under $10, or especially under $1. So Marc and I called our networking expert, the famous angel investor Ron Conway, for help. We told him our story, explaining that the $20 million a year contract from EDS made our business worth something, and that we had a great team and lots of valuable ideas. There was no reason our stock should be worth less than half the cash we had. Ron listened and said, “I think you should go see Herb Allen.” I had heard about Herb’s investment bank, Allen & Company, but didn’t know much about him. Allen & Company was famous for running the best business conference in the world. The conference was by invitation only and always had guests you wouldn’t see anywhere else.

People like Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Rupert Murdoch went there all the time. Allen & Company probably had more big-name guests than all other business conferences combined—it was that good.

Marc and I went to the Allen & Company office in Manhattan, inside the Coca-Cola building where Herb’s dad had been on the board for many years. If one word could describe the office, it would be classy. It was beautifully decorated but not flashy, both elegant and comfortable.

Like his office, Herb himself was simple but classy. He started the meeting by praising Ron, saying any introduction from Ron meant a lot to him. Marc and I carefully told Herb about Loudcloud—how we sold the services part to EDS but kept the software and important people, and had a $20 million a year software deal. We also had a clean balance sheet and were definitely worth more than 35 cents per share. Herb listened closely and then said, “I’d like to help. I’ll see what I can do.” I didn’t know if he would.
