“Jason, the whole company is here to help you. Whatever you need, I’ll make sure you get it. Anthony, Jason will try to deliver everything EDS wants, but he won’t be able to do it perfectly. So now, you’re in charge of finding out what they didn’t expect but actually want. You need to find the exciting value. When you do, we will deliver it.” Jason and Anthony then went to Plano, Texas, to meet with the people at EDS.

They didn’t know who was really making the decisions, but after many meetings that didn’t lead anywhere, they finally found the office of a guy I’ll call Frank Johnson (not his real name). He was a big guy from Oklahoma, went to West Point, and was in charge of everyone working with servers at EDS. Anthony and Jason talked about the Opsware technology and how it could save money.

After listening for a bit, Frank pushed back his chair, stood up, and yelled, “You wanna know what I think about Opsware? I think it’s the biggest piece of trash! All I hear all day is how much this product sucks. I’m going to do everything I can to kick you guys out.” Frank said he planned to remove all our software right away and get all the money back. He was totally serious.

Anthony stayed calm, looked him in the eye, and said, “Frank, I’ll do exactly what you say. I hear you loud and clear. This is a bad moment for both of us. Can I use your phone to call Ben Horowitz and tell him what you want? But before I do, can I ask one thing? If my company promises to fix these problems, how much time will you give us?” Frank said, “Sixty days.” Anthony told him the timer started right then and left his office. That was good news: we had exactly sixty days to fix everything and make it work. If we didn’t, we were done. We had sixty days to live.

One early lesson I learned in my career was that when a big company tries to do something, it always comes down to one person who can slow down the whole project. An engineer might get stuck waiting for a decision, or a manager might think she can’t make an important purchase. These small things can cause huge delays. I couldn’t afford any delays, so I set up a daily meeting with Anthony, Jason, and the team—who were now in Plano. The goal was to get rid of all
