I thought Roger would definitely give me a bad beating if I didn’t do what he said. But at the same time, I was scared to even ask for the wagon. Honestly, I was scared of everything. I was way too afraid of Roger to stay where I was, so I started walking down the block toward the other kid. It was probably only about thirty yards, but it felt like thirty miles. When I finally got there, I could barely move. I didn’t know what to say, so I just opened my mouth and started talking. “Can I ride in your wagon?” I said. Joel Clark Jr. said, “Sure.” When I looked back to see what Roger would do, he was gone. It seemed like the nicer side of him took over, and he had moved on to something else. Joel and I played all day that day, and we’ve been best friends ever since.

Eighteen years later, he was the best man at my wedding.

I’ve never told this story to anyone before, but it changed my life. It showed me that being scared doesn’t mean you’re weak. What you do matters and decides if you’re a hero or a coward. I often think back to that day and realize that if I had done what Roger said, I would have never met my best friend. That moment also taught me not to judge people or things just by how they look. Until you try to get to know someone or something, you don’t really know anything. There are no shortcuts to learning, especially from your own experience. Just going along with what everyone says or taking easy ways can be worse than knowing nothing at all.

Over the years, I worked hard not to be fooled by first impressions or just follow what’s normal without thinking. I grew up in Berkeley and was a good student, but people there didn’t like football because they thought it was too military-like. Even though no one expected me to join the Berkeley High School football team, that’s exactly what I did. This was a big deal for me because I had never played football before. But those early lessons about facing fear helped me a lot. In high school football, being able to handle fear is about 75 percent of the game.

I’ll never forget the first team meeting with head coach Chico Mendoza.

Coach Mendoza was a tough old guy who had played college football at Texas Christian University, home of the Horned Frogs. He started his speech with, “Some of you guys will come out here and just won’t be serious. You’ll get here and start joking around, talking nonsense, not doing anything, and just want to look good in your football gear. If you do that, then you know what? Turn your stuff in.” Then he explained more about what he meant.
