“I Will Survive” was written and composed by Dino Fekaris and Frederick J. Perren.

It was copyrighted in 1978 by Universal-PolyGram International Publishing, Inc., and Perren-Vibes Music, Inc. Universal-PolyGram International Publishing, Inc. manages all the rights. All rights are reserved and it is used with permission.

This song is reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation.

“On to the Next One” was written and composed by Kasseem Dean, Jessie Chaton, Shawn Carter, Michel Andre Auge Gaspard, and Xavier De Rosnay. It was copyrighted in 2009 by Universal Tunes, a part of Songs of Universal, Inc., Monza Ronza, Universal Music Publishing MGB France, Options, Because Editions, WB Music Corp., and Carter Boys Music. 

Universal Tunes manages all rights for Monza Ronza. Universal Music-MGB Songs manages rights for Universal Music Publishing MGB France and Options in the U.S. and Canada. Blue Mountain Music, Ltd. manages rights for Because Editions. WB Music Corp. manages rights on behalf of itself and Carter Boys Music. All rights are reserved and used with permission.

This song is reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation and Alfred Music Publishing.

“Scream on ’Em” was created by Kasseem Dean and Jayceon Terrell Taylor. It was copyrighted in 2006 by Universal Tunes, Monza Ronza, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, Baby Game Music, and Pico Pride Publishing.

Universal Tunes manages rights for Monza Ronza. Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC manages rights for itself and Baby Game Music. Ciw2, Inc. manages rights for Pico Pride Publishing.

All rights are reserved and used with permission. This song is reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, and Ciw2, Inc.

“All Gold Everything” was written and composed by Devon Gallaspy and Nicholaus Joseph Williams. It was copyrighted in 2013 by Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC and Trinlanta Publishing.

Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC manages all rights on behalf of itself. All rights are reserved and used with permission.

This song is reprinted by permission of Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, and Trinlanta Publishing.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
