Ben said, “He was the CEO of Yahoo. We’re screwed. I’m going to have to shut the company down.” Felicia asked, “Are you sure?” Ben replied, “Didn’t you hear me? They fired Koogle. We’re screwed.” She had never seen me that sad before, and she never forgot it. For most CEOs, the night before their public offering is a big moment. For me, it was the worst moment of my life.

During the road show, to lighten the mood, Marc would joke, “Remember, Ben, things are always darkest before they go completely black.” He was kidding, but as we started our first quarter as a public company, those words felt true. Customers kept leaving, the economy got worse, and our sales looked bad. Before our first earnings call with investors, I checked carefully to see if we were still on track.

The good news was we would meet our forecast for the quarter. The bad news: we probably wouldn’t meet our forecast for the whole year.

Usually, investors expect companies not to go public if they can’t meet their first year’s forecast. These were tough times, but lowering your forecast on your very first earnings call is still a really bad move.

We had a hard choice: Should we lower the forecast just a little to avoid big damage, or lower it a lot to avoid having to do it again? If we cut it too much, the stock might crash. But if we didn’t cut it enough, we might have to lower it again later, and that would make us look even worse. My controller, Dave Conte, gave clear advice: “No matter what we do, we’re going to get hurt. Once we lower the forecast, investors won’t trust us. So we might as well take the full hit now, because no one will believe any good news later. If you’re going to eat crap, don’t nibble.” So we cut our year forecast from $75 million to $55 million.

Lowering the revenue forecast also meant lowering the expense forecast, which meant laying off people. We had been a favorite in the startup world, and now I had to let go of 15 percent of our employees. That was the clearest sign yet of how bad things had gotten.
