Good enough wasn’t enough for me. I needed people who were really great at what I needed done. I wanted people who actually wanted to do the jobs they were hired for. And I needed people who believed in the mission—to make Silicon Valley a better place to start companies.

The first person we hired was Scott Kupor. He had been the finance director at Opsware. Scott worked for me almost the whole eight years, and I’m not sure he enjoyed any of it, but he did an amazing job anyway. He ran customer support, planning, and technical field operations, but none of those were his favorite jobs. Scott loved three things: running things, planning strategy, and making deals. If he could do those, he’d hardly ever sleep. But at Opsware, he only got to do two out of the three. Not being able to work on deals was really hard for him. He felt trapped. And I kept him like that for eight years. So, when we built this new company, the first thing I thought was, “I finally found the perfect job for Scott.” He became the chief operating officer.

Next, we built the rest of the team. We hired Mark Cranney, who was head of sales at Opsware, to run our big-company network. Shannon Callahan, who was in charge of recruiting and HR, took over the engineering network. Margit Wennmachers, who was amazing at marketing, ran the marketing network. Jeff Stump, the best executive recruiter we knew, handled the executive network. And Frank Chen, my former head of product management, led a central research group.

Our idea about what a venture capital firm should be really connected with the best entrepreneurs in the world. In just four years, we went from nothing to one of the most respected venture capital firms in the world.

FINAL LESSON  
“I know you think my life is good cause my diamond piece  
But my life been good since I started finding peace.” —NAS, “LOCO-MOTIVE”

I often joke that people think I’m a better CEO now than when I was actually CEO. Today, some call me a management expert, but when I ran Opsware, most people didn’t think much of me. As Felicia likes to say, “They called you everything but a child of God.” So what happened? Did I change, or did people’s opinions change?

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
