I definitely learned a lot over the years, and honestly, I’m a bit embarrassed about how I acted in the beginning. But by the end, I got pretty good at running the company. There’s a lot of proof for this. I completely changed our business, even though it was a public company, and still managed to grow its value from $29 million to $1.65 billion in just five years. Many of the people who worked at Opsware now work with me at Andreessen Horowitz or one of the companies we invest in, so they must have liked working with me. When HP bought us, it was the biggest deal in the industry, so we definitely won.

Still, from 2003 to 2007, when I was good at running Opsware, you wouldn’t find a single article or blog or comment that said anything nice about me. The press said the company was doomed, and shareholders wanted me to quit. At that time, no one thought I was doing a good job.

Looking back, people’s opinions changed after we sold to HP and because of what I’ve written since then. After I stopped being CEO, I got a freedom I never had before. As a venture capitalist, I can say what I really think without worrying about what others think. When you’re a CEO, you don’t have that freedom. You have to care about what everyone thinks. Especially, you can’t show any weakness in public. It wouldn’t be fair to employees, executives, or the shareholders. You have to act super confident all the time.

When we started Andreessen Horowitz, I could forget all that pressure. Sure, we still have employees, but we don’t have public shareholders who freak out over every news story. More importantly, I’m not really the CEO here. We invest in companies that have their own CEOs. They have to be the ones who stay super confident. Now, I can share my weaknesses, fears, and mistakes. I can say what I want without worrying about upsetting powerful people. And it’s those fears and honest thoughts that help solve tough problems. Hard things are hard because there are no easy answers. They’re hard because your feelings don’t match your logic. They’re hard because you don’t know what to do and asking for help feels like showing weakness.

When I first became a CEO, I really thought I was the only one struggling. When I talked to other CEOs, it seemed like they had everything under control. Their businesses were always “fantastic,” and their experiences were always “amazing.” I thought maybe growing up in...
