We had talked to at least a dozen other vendors. They all promised things, but none of them actually delivered. You guys really came through, and I’m shocked. You are the best vendor I have, and I’m happy to be working with you. We did it. We saved the account and saved the company. What a relief!

But we still had the small problem of the company we had just bought and its fifty-seven employees. Some decisions were easy—we didn’t need nine out of ten salespeople because they weren’t selling anything. Some decisions were harder: Should we keep the North Carolina office? In the end, we decided to keep it and put customer support there. It turned out that when you think about people quitting and the cost of hiring and training, engineers in Cary, North Carolina, were cheaper to hire than engineers in Bangalore, India. Over the years, Tangram became a very profitable buy—much more than just saving the EDS account.

When we were buying Tangram, both sides agreed that Tangram’s CFO, John Nelli, wouldn’t join our company. But between signing the deal and finishing it, John started having bad headaches. Doctors found out he had brain cancer. Since he wouldn’t be an employee and had a preexisting condition, he couldn’t get health insurance from us. The cost of his treatment without insurance could have ruined his family. I asked our HR head how much it would cost to keep him on payroll long enough to get COBRA insurance and how much COBRA would cost. It was expensive—about $200,000. That was a lot for a company like ours. Plus, we barely knew John, and we didn’t technically owe him anything. This wasn’t our problem. We were fighting for our lives.

We were fighting for our lives, but he was about to lose his. I decided to pay for his health costs and find the money somewhere else in the budget. I didn’t expect to hear anything else about it, but fifteen months later, I got a handwritten letter from John’s wife. She told me John had died. She said she was shocked that I helped a total stranger and his family, and that I saved her from total despair. She wrote for several paragraphs that she didn’t know why I did it, but it helped her keep living, and she was forever grateful.

I guess I did it because I knew what desperation felt like.

SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST

Almost as soon as the EDS crisis was over, I got news that three new clients we thought we’d sign were now backing out. A strong new competitor,
