I felt like I was failing. Failing my investors, failing my employees, and failing myself.

After things got reset, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley—the big banks that helped us go public—stopped following our company. Their analysts wouldn’t watch how we were doing or report on us anymore. This felt like a huge betrayal because they promised to support us when they first pitched us. But times were tough everywhere, and we couldn’t do anything about it. With the banks losing faith in us and our revenue forecast dropping, our stock price fell from $6 a share to $2.

Even with all the bad news, we kept going and were actually doing pretty well in the third quarter of 2001. Then, on September 11, terrorists hijacked four planes, crashing two into the World Trade Center and one into the Pentagon, which caused chaos all over the world. Our biggest deal that quarter was with the British government, making up a third of our bookings. Without it, we would miss our targets badly. Then we found out that Prime Minister Tony Blair had taken the funds for our deal and redirected them to the war effort. Luckily, our sales director convinced one of Blair’s staffers to give us the money back, so we got the deal and made our quarter.

Still, this close call made me realize our whole operation was way too fragile. I got another warning when our biggest competitor, Exodus, declared bankruptcy on September 26. It was crazy because just over a year before, Exodus was worth $50 billion. Even more shocking, they had raised $800 million just nine months earlier, claiming they had a “fully funded plan.” One Exodus executive joked to me, “When we drove off the cliff, we left no skid marks.” If Exodus could lose $50 billion and $800 million that fast, I needed to come up with a backup plan.

For my first try at a “Plan B,” we looked into buying Data Return, a company like ours but more focused on Windows apps instead of Unix apps like us. We spent weeks studying the deal, imagining what the two companies would look like combined, figuring out the products and how much money we could save together. My CFO was super excited about the deal because it meant he could do what he loved most—cut costs.

Near the end of all this, I took a two-day vacation to Ashland, Oregon.

Almost as soon as I got there, John O’Farrell, who was in charge of corporate and business development, called me urgently.

John said, “Ben, sorry to bother you on vacation, but we just had a meeting on the...”
