EUPHORIA AND TERROR

I needed to get money again, but this time things were even worse. In the last part of 2000, I talked to every possible investor, including Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal from Saudi Arabia, but no one wanted to invest money at any price. We went from being the coolest startup in Silicon Valley to having no chance of getting money in just six months. With 477 employees and a business that felt like a ticking time bomb, I looked for answers.

Thinking about what could happen if we ran out of money—firing all the people I had carefully hired, losing all the investors’ money, and letting down the customers who trusted us—made it hard to focus on any good options. Marc Andreessen tried to make me feel better with a joke that wasn’t funny at the time:  
Marc: “Do you know the best thing about startups?”  
Ben: “What?”  
Marc: “You only ever feel two things: pure happiness and total fear. And not sleeping makes both even worse.”  

With time running out, one strange but interesting option came up: we could try to go public. At that time, private investors had stopped giving money to companies like ours, but the stock market was still a little open. This was weird, but private investors had become very doubtful, while the public market was only partly that way.

With no other choices, I had to suggest to the board that we go public. To get ready, I made a list of the good and bad things about doing an IPO.

I knew Bill Campbell would be the key person I had to convince. Bill was the only board member who had been the CEO of a public company. He understood the good and bad sides better than anyone. More important, everyone looked to Bill for advice in tough situations because he had something special.

Bill was in his sixties then, with gray hair and a rough voice, but he had the energy of a 20-year-old. He started out as a college football coach and didn’t begin working in business until he was forty. Even though he started late, Bill became the chairman and CEO of Intuit. After that, he became famous in tech, helping great CEOs like Steve Jobs from Apple, Jeff Bezos from Amazon, and Eric Schmidt from Google.

Bill was super smart, very charming, and great at running companies, but the key...
