A true friend is someone who really cares.

To everyone who ever worked at Loudcloud or Opsware, thank you so much. I still can’t believe you believed in me as much as I believed in you. Special thanks to Jason Rosenthal, Mark Cranney, Sharmila Mulligan, Dave Conte, John O’Farrell, Jordan Breslow, Scott Kupor, Ted Crossman, and Anthony Wright for being part of this book.

I hope I didn’t make any big mistakes. Thanks to Eric Vishria, Eric Thomas, Ken Tinsley, and Peter Thorp for helping me remember what happened. Also, thanks to Ray Soursa, Phil Liu, and Paul Ingram for saving the company. Darwin forever! Big thanks to Shannon Callahan—I still can’t believe I had to lay you off. Thanks to Dave Jagoda for reminding me what really matters.

I want to thank Tim Howes, my Loudcloud/Opsware cofounder and close friend. I don’t know if we always made the right choices, but talking with you kept me sane. Thanks for being there from the beginning to the end.

Without Carlye Adler, my editor and coach, I might not have even started this book, let alone finished it. She was super excited when I wrote something good and sad when it was boring. Thank you, Carlye, for making this book way better than it should have been.

Special thanks to Hollis Heimbouch for finding me on Facebook and pushing me to write the book. I couldn’t have asked for a better publisher. Thanks to the whole team at HarperCollins.

Binky Urban is the best literary agent in the world, and I’m so lucky to have worked with her. It’s amazing to work with the very best.

Thanks to my friends Nasir Jones and Kanye West for inspiring me with their work and helping me express feelings that were hard to say. I also appreciate them for letting this fan go backstage.

Steve Stoute has been an awesome friend through all of this, helping me find my voice and reminding me that my work matters.

Thanks to my oldest friend, Joel Clark Jr., for being a great friend for forty-three years and letting me tell the story of how we met.

Chris Schroeder helped me edit the book and stayed super excited the whole time. Sometimes, he seemed even more interested in this work than I was.

Thank you, Herb Allen, for being a great friend and letting me write about you, even though I know it’s not your favorite thing.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
