Capital firms were really secretive about how they worked and what they believed. Most firms didn’t do much PR or talk about what they did. Instead, they competed based on their past success with investments. So, the firms with the best records kept staying on top, making it almost impossible for a new firm without a track record to break into the top group.

We needed a way to stand out and become the firm that great entrepreneurs wanted to work with. But how?

We needed to change the way entrepreneurs judged venture capital firms. We thought there was a chance to do this because times had changed. When Marc and I first started as entrepreneurs in the mid-1990s, we didn’t know many other entrepreneurs. We just did our thing without thinking of ourselves as part of a bigger community. We were entrepreneurs at the start of the Internet, before Facebook, Twitter, and other social media existed. We didn’t talk to other entrepreneurs because there wasn’t a community. We were totally focused on our own business. But in the last ten years, things have changed. Entrepreneurs now hang out, make friends, and meet up. There’s a real community. Once we realized this, we figured that if we offered something better, word-of-mouth would work now where it didn’t before.

We needed to be better but also different. As we thought about how to be both better and different, two main ideas shaped our thinking: First, technical founders are the best people to run tech companies. All the great long-lasting tech companies we admired—Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook—were run by their founders. More specifically, the person who invented the idea was running the company. Second, it was super hard for technical founders to learn how to be CEOs while also building their companies. I was proof of that. But most venture capital firms were set up to replace the founder, not help them grow and succeed.

Marc and I thought if we built a firm made to help technical founders run their own companies, we could build a good reputation and become one of the top venture capital firms even without a track record. We saw two big gaps that a founder CEO had compared to a professional CEO: 1. The CEO skill set like managing executives, organizing the company, running sales teams, and stuff like that were all important skills that technical...
