Ben: "Is he bad at hiring?"  
Joe: "No, he brought some of the best salespeople into the company."  

Ben: "Can he do big deals?"  
Joe: "Yes, definitely. Mark did some of the largest deals we had."  

Ben: "Is he a bad manager?"  
Joe: "No, he was very good at running his team."  

Ben: "Well, then why shouldn’t I hire him?"  
Joe: "He won’t fit in well with our company culture."  

Ben: "Please explain."  
Joe: "When I was training new salespeople at Parametric Technology Corporation, I brought Mark in as a guest speaker to motivate them. We had fifty new hires, and I had them all excited about selling and working for the company. But Mark came up, looked at the group, and said, 'I don’t care how well trained you are. If you don’t bring me five hundred thousand dollars a quarter, I’m putting a bullet in your head.'"  

Ben: "Thank you very much."  

The world feels one way in peace but very different when you have to fight for your life every day. When things are calm, you can care about being polite, company culture, and people’s feelings. But in war, winning and keeping your team safe is all that matters. I was at war, and I needed a tough leader like Mark Cranney.  

As the last step to hiring him, I had to explain it to Marc Andreessen.  

Marc is the cofounder and chairman of the board, so his opinion was very important. He wasn’t comfortable with Mark yet, but he trusted me enough to let me make the decision. Still, I wanted him to fully agree.  

I let Marc start the conversation because, even though he’s super smart, he’s humble and doesn’t like being ignored. He began by listing his problems with Mark: he doesn’t look or sound like a sales leader, went to a weak school, and makes him uncomfortable.  

I listened carefully and said, "I agree with all those points. But Mark Cranney is a sales genius. He’s mastered sales better than anyone I’ve ever met. If he didn’t have those flaws you mentioned, he wouldn’t join a company trading at just thirty-five cents a share; he’d be CEO of..."  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
