He worked really hard to get better at what he did. Not only did he write great books about management, but he also taught management classes at Intel while he worked there.

In his famous book Only the Paranoid Survive, Grove explains how he helped Intel switch from making memory chips to making microprocessors. This change meant giving up most of the company’s money. He gives credit to others who saw this change coming before him, but he is the one who quickly and successfully led the company through it. Changing the main business of a big, public company like Intel is a huge deal and makes people ask a lot of questions.

Andy tells a story about one of his workers: “One of them got really mad and asked me, ‘Can you imagine Intel without being in the memory business?’ I took a deep breath and said, ‘Yes, I guess I can.’ Everything went crazy after that.” Even though this new plan shocked many of his best employees, they ended up trusting Andy. They trusted him to rebuild the company around a totally new business. That trust turned out to be a great decision.

SO, ARE GREAT LEADERS BORN OR MADE?

Let’s look at one quality at a time: Explaining the vision. Some people are naturally better at telling stories, but anyone can get better with practice and hard work. All CEOs should work on this part of leadership.

Making sure everyone’s goals match up. I’m not sure if this skill can be learned, but I think it’s something you’re born with. Out of the three qualities, this one seems like it is “born not made.”

Getting things done. This skill can definitely be learned. Maybe that’s why Andy Grove had very little patience for people who weren’t good at their jobs. Sometimes being too confident can hurt your ability to do well. A CEO should never be so confident that they stop trying to get better.

In the end, some leadership skills are easier to improve than others, but every CEO should work on all three. Also, each skill helps the others. If people trust you, they will listen to your vision even if it isn’t perfect.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
