When Microsoft released Windows 95 for free, it caused a big problem for Netscape because almost all our money came from selling browsers, and Microsoft owned more than 90% of operating systems. We told investors we would make money from Web servers instead.

Two months later, we got an early version of Microsoft’s new Web server called Internet Information Server (IIS). We took it apart and saw it had all the features we had, including the security in our high-end product, and it was five times faster. Uh-oh. I thought we had about five months before Microsoft released IIS, so we had to fix this problem or we’d be finished. Normally, product cycles took eighteen months, so this was a very short time.

I went to see our department head, Mike Homer. Except for Marc, Mike was the most important creative person at Netscape. The worse things got, the stronger Mike became. When Microsoft attacked us hard, most executives hid from the press. Mike, however, was always in front of the cameras. When Microsoft launched its “embrace and extend” plan to attack Netscape, Mike took every phone call, sometimes talking to two reporters at once with a phone in each hand. He was a true fighter.

Mike and I spent months creating a full answer to Microsoft’s threat. If they were going to give their products away, we would offer a very cheap, open alternative to Microsoft’s expensive and closed BackOffice product line. We bought two companies to give us a product that could compete with Microsoft Exchange. We also made a huge deal with Informix, a database company, to give us unlimited database access through the Web for $50 a copy, which was hundreds of times cheaper than Microsoft’s price. When we put everything together, Mike named it Netscape SuiteSpot because it was going to replace Microsoft’s BackOffice. We planned a big launch on March 5, 1996, in New York.

But just two weeks before the launch, Marc told the whole plan to the magazine Computer Reseller News without telling Mike or me. I was furious. I immediately sent him a short email: To: Marc Andreessen Cc: Mike Homer
