It all started because of that meeting I went to.  

Ben asked, "Should I come home?"  
John said, "No, we’ll take care of her. You just focus on your work."  

I was totally shocked. I started sweating so much that I had to change my clothes right after the call. I didn’t know what to do. If I went home, the company would probably go bankrupt. But if I stayed... how could I stay? I called back and asked him to put Felicia on the phone.  

Ben said, "If you need me, I’ll come home."  
Felicia said, "No. Finish the IPO. There’s no time for anything else. I’ll be fine."  

I made it through the rest of the roadshow, but I was completely confused.  

One day, I wore a jacket and pants that didn’t match. Marc noticed and told me during the meeting. Half the time, I didn’t even know where I was.  

During the three weeks we were traveling, companies like ours lost half their value. That meant our $10 share price was about twice what it should be. The bankers told us to lower the price to $6 per share because that was more realistic, but they couldn’t promise the deal would happen.  

Then, the day before the offering, Yahoo, the big star of the internet boom, said their CEO, Tim Koogle, was quitting. That was the lowest point of the dot-com crash.  

We finally sold our shares at $6 each and raised $162.5 million, but there was no celebration or party. Even the banks that helped us, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, didn’t give us the usual closing dinner. It was probably the least happy IPO ever.  

But Felicia was feeling better, and we had made it through. On the plane ride home, I joked with Scott Kupor, my finance director, and said, "We did it!" He answered, "Yeah, but we’re still screwed."  

Years later, in 2012, after Yahoo fired its CEO Scott Thompson, Felicia asked, "Should they bring back Koogle?" I was surprised and said, "Tim Koogle? How do you even know who that is?" Then she remembered our old conversation from eleven years ago, which went like this:  

Ben said, "We’re screwed."  
Felicia asked, "What do you mean? What happened?"  
Ben said, "Yahoo fired Koogle. It’s all over."  
Felicia asked, "Who is Koogle?"  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
