The question was more real than you might think. But asking an entrepreneur, “What would you do if money was free?” is a risky question. It’s like asking a fat person, “What would you do if ice cream was as healthy as broccoli?” Thinking about this can be really dangerous.

I took the advice and went all in. We quickly built our cloud system and started signing up customers fast. Within seven months, we had $10 million in contracts. Loudcloud was growing fast, but we were racing against time and other companies. That meant hiring the best people and offering the most services, which meant spending a lot of money.

Our ninth hire was a recruiter, and we got a human resources person when we had twelve employees. We were hiring thirty people every month and getting some of the smartest folks in Silicon Valley. One new hire quit his job at AOL to go mountain climbing for two months but joined us instead. Another gave up millions to join Loudcloud right on the day his old company went public. Six months later, we had almost two hundred employees.

Silicon Valley was buzzing, and Loudcloud was called “Marc Andreessen’s second coming” on the cover of Wired magazine. We moved from our first office—where running the microwave and coffee machine at the same time would blow a fuse—to a 15,000-square-foot warehouse in Sunnyvale, but it was already too small when we moved in.

We spent $5 million to move into a new three-story building with jade-colored tiles that we nicknamed “the Taj” (like the Taj Mahal). It was still too small because we were hiring so fast, and people had to sit in the hallways. We rented a third parking lot down the street and ran shuttle vans to the office. (The neighbors hated us.) The kitchen was stocked like a Costco, and when we fired the snack supplier for making our fridge look messy, he asked for company shares.

This was the moment.

In the next three months, we booked $27 million in new contracts, and we were less than nine months old. It felt like we were building the best business ever. Then the big dot-com crash hit. The NASDAQ stock market reached a high of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000—more than double the year before—but dropped 10% just ten days later. A Barron’s magazine cover called it “Burning Up” and warned what was coming. By April, after the government...
