Founders didn’t have everything they needed.

2. The CEO network. Professional CEOs knew a lot of important people like other executives, potential customers, partners, reporters, investors, and other business contacts. But technical founders mostly knew good engineers and how to code.

Next, we asked, “How can a venture capital firm help founder CEOs fill those gaps?” It was hard to fix the skill problem because the only way to learn how to be a CEO is by actually being a CEO. Sure, you can teach some skills, but learning to be a CEO in a classroom is like trying to become an NFL quarterback just by sitting in class. Even if Peyton Manning or Tom Brady taught you, without real experience, you’d fail when you got on the field.

We decided that while we couldn’t give a founder CEO all the skills they needed, we could offer mentorship to help them learn faster. So, all our general partners had to be good mentors for founders trying to become CEOs.

(Not all founders want to be CEOs. Sometimes it’s better to bring in a professional CEO. For those cases, we help founders find the right CEO and then support the new CEO so they work well with the founders and keep their special strengths.) That’s why many of our general partners are former founders or CEOs themselves, and they focus on helping founders become great CEOs. This idea felt so simple and clear that it had to work.

Next, we wanted to organize and improve the network. We got ideas from my friend and Opsware board member Michael Ovitz. Thirty-four years ago, Michael started Creative Artists Agency (CAA), a huge Hollywood talent agency. When he began CAA, it wasn’t an obvious idea. The talent agency business hadn’t changed much in seventy-five years. Michael was doing well at the William Morris Agency, the top agency back then. Leaving that job to start something new seemed crazy to many people. But Michael had a clear goal: If he could build a firm so good it attracted the best talent in the world, he could change the whole industry’s way of working.
