SILICON VALLEY

One summer in college, I got a job as an engineer at a company called Silicon Graphics (SGI). The experience amazed me. The company created modern computer graphics and helped make cool things like the movie Terminator 2 and flight simulators. Everyone there was really smart. The stuff they built was awesome. I wanted to work at Silicon Graphics forever.

After finishing college and graduate school in computer science, I went back to work for SGI. It was like a dream, and I loved it. After my first year, I met Roselie Buonauro, a former head of marketing at the company who had started a new business. She heard about me from her daughter, who worked with me at SGI. Roselie really wanted me to join her.

Finally, I agreed and went to work for her at NetLabs.

But working at NetLabs turned out to be a bad choice for me. The company was run by Andre Schwager, a former Hewlett-Packard executive and Roselie’s husband. They were hired by investors as the “professional management team.” Sadly, they didn’t understand the products or technology well and kept changing the company’s direction in confusing ways. This was the first time I realized how important it is for founders to run their own companies.

Things got harder because my second daughter, Mariah, was diagnosed with autism. This made working at a startup very difficult for my family since I had to spend more time at home.

One really hot day, my father came to visit. We didn’t have air conditioning, and all three kids were crying while my dad and I sat sweating in the 105-degree heat.

My dad turned to me and said, “Son, do you know what’s cheap?” I didn’t know, so I asked, “No, what?” He said, “Flowers. Flowers are really cheap. But do you know what’s expensive?” I asked again, “No, what?” He said, “Divorce.” 

That joke, which wasn’t really a joke, made me realize I had run out of time. Before that, I hadn’t made any serious choices. I thought I had all the time in the world to do everything I wanted.
