E&Y said, “No. That’s not good enough. You have to get all three customers to change their contracts using the new wording we created to make things clear.” Ben said, “But all three customers are big banks with risk departments. They won’t change their contracts quickly. Plus, we’re in the middle of a $1.6 billion deal. This will ruin everything.” E&Y replied, “We don’t care. That’s what you have to do.” Ben said, “We’ve been your customer for eight years and paid you millions. Your partner made this decision in the first place. Why would you ruin our deal if we and the customers agree on what it means?” E&Y said, “Either change the contracts or redo your revenue. You have 48 hours.” Dave Price looked like he was about to cry.

E&Y’s national office didn’t care about the meaning or fairness of the law, only the exact words. They refused to do what made sense for accounting or business. They only wanted what was easiest for Ernst & Young.

My CFO, Dave Conte, looked really pale. Hundreds of people had worked for eight years to get here, and now it seemed like all that work would be wasted by the accounting firm Dave had chosen. Dave had worked at Ernst & Young for 15 years before joining Opsware. Usually outgoing, he could hardly speak. I was angry at everyone but knew saying anything wouldn’t fix the problem or help Dave feel worse. I asked Jordan Breslow, our lawyer, “Do we have to tell the buyers right now?” Scarily, he said, “Yes.” So, we told HP and BMC about the problem and said we thought we could fix it by changing the contracts in 24 hours.

Neither HP nor BMC believed us. I wasn’t sure I believed it either. How could we get three big banks to change their contracts in just one day? Both buyers started planning how to deal with the news and maybe change their offers.

Meanwhile, Dave, Mark Cranney, and I got to work trying to change the contracts. We sat in the finance room, thinking hard about who we knew and how to reach the right people in time to save the deal. I called every board member to ask which bank they used and if they knew anyone who could help.
