I wanted to do everything at the same time. But his joke made me realize that if I kept going like this, I might lose my family. Trying to do it all meant I would fail at the most important thing. It was the first time I forced myself to think about what really mattered, not just what I wanted. I thought I could chase my career, my interests, and still build a family. More than that, I always put myself first. When you’re part of a family or a group, thinking only about yourself can cause big problems, and I was in serious trouble. I believed I was a good person and not selfish, but my actions showed something else. I had to stop acting like a kid and start acting like a man. I had to put the most important things first. I had to think about the people I cared about before thinking about myself.

The next day, I decided to quit NetLabs. I got a job at Lotus Development that would let me fix my home life. I stopped thinking about myself and focused on what was best for my family. I started becoming the person I wanted to be.

One day while working at Lotus, a coworker showed me a new product called Mosaic. It was made by some students at the University of Illinois. Mosaic was like a way to see the Internet with pictures and graphics, something that before was only used by scientists and researchers. It blew my mind. It was clear this was the future, and I was wasting my time working on anything else.

A few months later, I read about a company called Netscape, started by Jim Clark and Marc Andreessen, the guy who made Mosaic. I immediately decided I wanted to try to get a job there. I called a friend who worked at Netscape and asked if he could help me get an interview. He said yes, so I went for it.

During the first interviews, I met everyone on the product management team. I thought the meetings went well, but when I got home that night, Felicia was crying. The Netscape recruiter had called, but Felicia answered the phone. (This was before everyone had cell phones.) The recruiter told her it was unlikely I’d get the job because they wanted people with MBAs from Stanford or Harvard. Felicia said maybe I could go back to school, but with three kids, she knew that wasn’t possible, which made her upset. I told her that recruiters aren’t the ones who hire, and maybe they would still consider me even without the “right” degree.
