THE DANGERS: THE PETER PRINCIPLE AND THE LAW OF CRAPPY PEOPLE

The basics seem simple, so why do most companies mess up when it comes to giving job titles? If you’ve worked at a company, you might have thought about a boss who got promoted too much: “How did this person become a vice president? I wouldn’t even let them run a lemonade stand.”

One problem is called the Peter Principle. This idea, from a book by Dr. Laurence J. Peter and Raymond Hull in 1969, says that people get promoted as long as they do their job well. But eventually, they get promoted to a job they can’t do well anymore (their “level of incompetence”), and they stay stuck there because they can’t get promoted further.

Andy Grove, in his book High Output Management, says the Peter Principle is something you can’t avoid because you can’t know ahead of time where someone will start to struggle in a company.

Another problem is what I call the Law of Crappy People. This law says that at any job level in a big company, the average skill level will end up being as low as the worst person with that job title.

The reason is that people at lower levels compare themselves to the worst person at the next level. For example, if Jasper is the worst vice president, all the directors will think they deserve a promotion as soon as they reach Jasper’s low skill level.

Like the Peter Principle, the best you can do is try to reduce the effects of the Law of Crappy People. Doing this is very important for making your company better.

PROMOTION PROCESS

The best way to fight both the Peter Principle and the Law of Crappy People is to have a strong and well-planned promotion process. Ideally, this process should work like the best karate schools.

In top karate schools, to move up to the next belt (like from brown belt to black belt), you have to beat someone at that level in a fight. This makes sure a new black belt is never worse than the weakest current black belt.

But since we can’t have real fights in business, the question is: how do we keep quality high without actual combat?
