These skills might seem political and strange where you are.

You don’t know the job as well as they do. Actually, you’re hiring them because you don’t know how to do the job yourself. So, how do you make sure they do a good job?

To stop your company from falling apart inside, you need to understand these problems and take the right steps to stop them from getting worse.

First, you should make sure everyone follows your company’s culture. It’s okay if people come from other companies with different cultures. Some might even be better than yours. But this is your company, your culture, and your way of working. Don’t be scared by their experience—stick to your values. If you want to include new ideas, do it on purpose. Also, watch out for people playing office politics and don’t accept it.

Most importantly, set high and clear standards for how well people should do their job. If you want a world-class company, your team needs to be world-class, no matter their age. It’s not enough that someone can do the job better than you, especially if you don’t know much about it—that’s why you hired them.

Don’t set low goals just because you don’t know what “good” looks like. For example, I’ve seen young CEOs proud of their marketing just because they got some positive news stories at the start. That’s not a high standard. Anyone can get reporters to write nice things about a new company. The best PR people can handle awkward, hard situations. They can fix bad stories and make something bad look good. This takes strong, trusted relationships, deep knowledge, and confidence. New PR people don’t have these three things.

A good way to set high standards is to talk to people who do a great job in their field. Learn what their standards are and use them to make your own. Once you set a high but reachable goal, expect your executives to meet it—even if you don’t know how they’ll do it. It’s not your job to figure out how to build an amazing brand, make big deals, or hit tough sales targets.
