Mark stayed on the phone with the sales reps and the people we knew at the accounts. Jordan and Dave came up with ten different ways to write the amendment. We worked all night on the deal, and Dave looked like he was having a huge heart attack the whole time. Somehow, by 11 a.m., we got all three contracts changed, and it happened in less than twenty-four hours. We didn’t have to redo our revenue.

Not surprisingly, the whole thing scared BMC, and they pulled out of their offer.

They didn’t think the problem was solved. HP wasn’t scared, but they lowered their offer to $13.75 per share because of the “problem” with the deal.

That night, the board met in our office to talk about HP’s new offer and to tell them that BMC had dropped out. Everyone on the board said we should take the $13.75 offer. I didn’t agree. I said I wouldn’t take anything less than the original $14.25 offer. Bill Campbell looked at me like I was crazy. I hadn’t slept and wasn’t sure if he was right or wrong. I just knew I had waited all night to be right and I couldn’t be more wrong.

I took a deep breath and said again: “HP offered $14.25, which is sixteen times our revenue from the past year, for one reason only. They offered it because we are the best company, the gold standard in an important market. That’s the whole point of this deal. If we accept a lower offer or show that we’re not the gold standard, this deal will fall apart.” John O’Farrell agreed with me. The board reluctantly accepted my view.

I went back to HP and told them the deal was $14.25 or nothing. After about two hours, during which Dave Conte looked really sick, they agreed. We had a deal. It was about $100 million less than if our supposed partner hadn’t betrayed us, but it was still a deal. I still hate Ernst & Young.

I’m sharing this story today because just when you think you can count on things in business, you find out the sky is purple. When that happens, it usually doesn’t help to keep saying the sky is blue. You just have to accept that it’s going to look like Barney for a while.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
