Does the CEO really want us to break things? I mean, he’s actually telling us to break things! That idea is so surprising it makes everyone stop and think. When they do, they realize that if you move fast and try new things, you will break stuff sometimes. If you ask yourself, “Should I try this big idea? It could be amazing, but it might cause some problems at first,” you already know the answer. If you’d rather be safe than try new things, you won’t fit in at Facebook.

Before you decide exactly how your company will shake things up, make sure your plan matches your values. For example, Jack Dorsey would never make his own desks out of doors at Square because at Square, cool design is more important than saving money. When you walk into Square, you can feel how seriously they care about design.

WHY DOGS AT WORK AND YOGA AREN’T CULTURE Startups today do all kinds of things to stand out. Many are great, many are original, many are weird, but most of these things don’t actually create the company’s culture. Sure, yoga might make your company better for people who like yoga. It might also help people work together better if they like yoga. But it’s not culture. It doesn’t create a core value that drives the business or helps it grow forever. It doesn’t really show what your business wants to do. Yoga is just a nice extra.

Someone keeping a pit bull in her cubicle might be surprising. The message might be “animal lovers are welcome” or “employees can live their own way.” That might be nice for society, but it doesn’t really connect to what your business is about in a special way. Every smart company cares about its employees. Perks are good, but they are not culture.

THE POINT OF IT ALL In the later part called “How to Evaluate CEOs” (see page 235), I say that a CEO’s job is to know what to do and get the company to do it.

Building the right company culture will help you get your company to do what you want in important ways for a long time.

my name is sandeep gautam
