Ben: “So what can we do?”  
Anthony: “If Tangram can come free with Opsware, then Frank will love us.”  
Ben: “That sounds impossible money-wise. If we buy licenses from Tangram and give them to EDS, it will cost a ton. We can’t explain that to Wall Street.”  
Anthony: “You asked me what EDS really wanted. They really want Tangram.”  
Ben: “Got it.”  

I had never heard of Tangram, so I quickly looked them up. They were a small company in Cary, North Carolina, but they were listed on the stock market. I checked their value. This couldn’t be right. Tangram Enterprise Solutions was only worth $6 million, which is super cheap for a public company.  

I immediately called my head of business development, John O’Farrell, and told him I wanted to buy Tangram fast—like, before our sixty-day window with EDS closed.  

Tangram was run by Norm Phelps, an interim CEO, which was a good sign they might sell. Usually, companies with temporary CEOs are more likely to be sold than to hire a new permanent one. John contacted Tangram, and they were interested right away. So, we got a team together to check everything out while we worked on a deal.  

After checking everything, my team said buying Tangram was a bad idea: the tech was old and hard to connect with ours, the company was far away in North Carolina, and the finance team said we’d lose money. I listened but told them I didn’t care about that. We were going to buy Tangram. They were surprised but didn’t argue.  

John and I made a deal to buy Tangram for $10 million in cash and stock.  

We signed the deal before the sixty days ended. I called Frank from EDS to tell him that after the deal closed, we would include all Tangram software for free with his Opsware contract. Frank was super happy. Now that we fixed the Tangram issue, he saw Jason’s team’s work in a totally new way.  

At the end of the sixty days, Frank gathered our team and gave this speech: “I’ve given the speech that I gave to you guys at the beginning of this process…”
