It was a small problem, and I had way bigger things to worry about, but everything feels hard when you don’t really know what you’re doing. I wasted a lot of time stressing over that dumb spreadsheet.

Even if you do know what you’re doing, things still go wrong. That’s because building a complex team to compete and win in a tough market is really hard. If CEOs were graded like students, the average score would be 22 out of 100. That’s a really low score, and it can be tough to accept, especially if you’re used to getting straight A’s. The worst part is, no one tells you that the average score is so low.

If you manage a small team of ten people, you can probably avoid many mistakes or bad behavior. But if you manage a company with a thousand people, it’s impossible. At some point, your company will mess up in ways you never thought you would. Watching people waste money, waste each other’s time, and do sloppy work can make you feel really bad. If you’re the CEO, it might even make you feel sick.

And to make things worse, it’s your fault.

NO ONE TO BLAME “You can’t blame Jazz musicians or David Stern with his NBA fashion issues.” —NAS, “HIP HOP IS DEAD” When people in my company complained about things being broken, like the expense reports, I would joke that it was all my fault. The joke was funny because it wasn’t really a joke. Every problem in the company was actually my fault. As the CEO who started the company, every hire and every decision was made by me. Unlike someone new who blames the old team, I had no one else to blame.

If someone got promoted for the wrong reasons, that was my fault. If we missed our earnings goal, that was my fault. If a great engineer quit, that was my fault. If the sales team demanded too much from the product team, that was my fault. If the product had too many bugs, that was my fault. Being me was kind of tough.

Being responsible for everything and getting a score of 22 on the test started to weigh on me.

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
