Mark didn’t look like the typical tough sales executive. For one, he was average height, while most sales execs are pretty tall. Also, he was kind of square-shaped—meaning he was as wide as he was tall. Not fat, just square. His square body looked awkward in what had to be a suit made just for him—no regular suit would fit a guy like Mark.

Then I checked his résumé. The first thing I saw was that he went to a school I’d never heard of, Southern Utah University. I asked him about it. He said, “It was the MIT of southern Utah.” That was the last joke he made. Mark was so serious that he seemed uncomfortable being himself. He made me feel uneasy too. Usually, that would be a deal-breaker for me, but I really needed the skills he had, so I ignored his weaknesses.

One way I test candidates is by asking about hiring, training, and managing sales reps. It usually goes like this:  
Ben: “What do you look for in a sales rep?”  
Candidate: “They need to be smart, aggressive, and competitive. They need to handle tough deals and work well inside companies.”  
Ben: “How do you check for that in an interview?”  
Candidate: “Umm, well, I just hire people I know.”  
Ben: “Okay, after hiring, what do you expect from them?”  
Candidate: “I expect them to follow the sales process, know the product well, and forecast sales accurately...”  
Ben: “Tell me about the training program you created to make this happen.”  
Candidate: “Umm.” Then they usually make something up.

Mark was perfect on the profile and answered all my questions well. Then I asked about training. I’ll never forget the look on his face. He seemed like he wanted to get up and leave right then. I almost wanted to give him some medicine to calm him down. His reaction surprised me because he had done so well before. Later, I realized asking Mark about training was like asking Isaac Newton to explain physics. Where do you even start?

After what felt like five minutes of silence, Mark pulled out a huge training manual he had made. He said he couldn’t explain everything about training in the time we had, but if I wanted...
