The road show was really tough. The stock market was crashing every day, and technology stocks were the main problem. Investors looked like they had been through a lot when we arrived. One mutual fund manager even asked Marc and me, “Why are you here? Do you know what’s happening in the world?” I thought there was no way we could raise the money. I was sure we were going to go bankrupt. I barely slept more than two hours in the whole three weeks.

Three days into the trip, my father-in-law called me. John Wiley had been through a lot in his 71 years. When he was a boy, his dad was killed in Texas. To survive, he and his mom moved in with a mean man and his nine kids. John was treated badly, made to stay in the barn with animals while the other kids ate his dinner. Eventually, John and his mom left by walking three days down a dirt road, carrying everything they owned. John remembered that journey clearly his whole life. As a young man, before finishing high school, he left home to fight in the Korean War so he could help his mom. Later, as a dad with five kids, he worked every job he could to support his family, like unloading banana boats and building the Alaskan pipeline. Sadly, he lost two of his children before he turned sixty. He had a hard life and was used to bad news.

John Wiley didn’t call me just for small things. If he called, it was serious, maybe even life or death.

Ben: “Hello.”  
John: “Ben, the office said not to bother you, but I want to tell you that Felicia stopped breathing, but she’s not going to die.”  
Ben: “Not going to die? What?! What happened?” I couldn’t believe it. I had been so focused on work that I forgot about the most important thing in my life. I once again didn’t worry about what I really should have worried about.

Ben: “What happened?”  
John: “They gave her some medicine, she had an allergic reaction, and she stopped breathing, but she’s okay now.”  
Ben: “When?”  
John: “Yesterday.”  
Ben: “What? Why didn’t you tell me?”  
John: “I knew you were busy and having trouble at work.”
