Is it easy for employees to do their jobs?

The second part of the evaluation checks if the CEO can run the company well. To figure this out, I like to ask: “How easy is it for any worker to finish their job?” In good companies, people can focus on their work without dealing with office politics or confusing rules. They trust that if they do their job well, good things will happen for both the company and themselves. But in bad companies, people waste a lot of time fighting against company rules and broken systems.

Even though it sounds simple, building a good company takes a lot of skill. This includes organizing the company well and managing how people perform. It also means setting up rewards and communication systems that help every employee do their best.

When a CEO “fails to scale,” it usually means they struggle with this part. In reality, very few CEOs do a great job here.

Netflix’s CEO, Reed Hastings, worked hard to create a system that helps employees be as effective as possible. He explains this system in a guide called Reference Guide on Our Freedom and Responsibility Culture. It shows what Netflix values in employees, how they check for these values in interviews, how they keep these values strong, and how they grow this system as more people join.

Did the CEO meet the goals set for the company?

When looking at results, the first step is making sure the goals are right. Some CEOs who are good at working with the board can “succeed” by setting goals that are too easy. Great CEOs who don’t work well with the board can “fail” by setting goals that are too hard. At the start of a company, goals can be tricky because no one really knows how big the chance for success is. So, the first job in measuring results is setting the right goals.

Also, keep in mind that different companies have very different chances and challenges. For example, you can’t expect a hardware company to use money as lightly as an internet company, or expect Yelp to grow as fast as others.
