The technical stuff we had to do was really tough. We had to come up with ideas and turn those ideas into a real product.

It was hard, but also fun. I don’t remember anyone quitting during that time. It felt like, “Hey, we have to finish this, or we’ll lose our jobs.” We were a close group. A lot of the new people really stepped up. It was a great way for them to learn by being thrown into a tough situation and told, “Okay, now swim.” Six months later, we started winning projects we hadn’t won before. Ben did a great job giving us feedback and encouraging us when we finished.

Eight years later, when I read what Ted wrote, I cried. I cried because I didn’t really understand back then. I thought I was asking too much from everyone. After barely making it through Loudcloud, I thought no one was ready for another do-or-die mission. I wish I had known then what I know now.

After the speech, the hard work of planning the product started. The product plan was full of hundreds of requests from our current customers.

The product management team didn’t want to choose new, risky features over the ones they knew customers wanted. They said, “How can we ignore requirements we know are important to try something that might work?” But that’s what product strategy is all about—figuring out the right product is the innovator’s job, not the customer’s. Customers only know what they think they want based on what they’ve used before. The innovator thinks about what’s possible, even if it goes against what customers expect. Innovation needs knowledge, skill, and courage. Sometimes only the founder has the courage to ignore the data. We were running out of time, so I had to step in and say, “I don’t care about the existing requests; we need to remake the product and win.” Nine months later, we released the new product and could win any deal. With the new product, Mark Cranney, the sales head, went all out.

After putting together a top sales team, Mark completely changed the sales process and made every salesperson go through tough training. He demanded they be experts. Any mistakes in skill, technique, or knowledge were not allowed.

We had a weekly call where Mark looked at every deal in front of the...
