His success comes from more than just those qualities. No matter where he is—whether it’s the Apple board, where he’s been for over ten years; the Columbia University Board of Trustees, where he’s the leader; or the girls’ football team he coaches—Bill is always everyone’s favorite person.

People give lots of complicated reasons why Bill is so well-liked. But for me, it’s simple. Everyone needs two kinds of friends in life. The first kind is someone you can call when something good happens, and you want someone who will be truly happy for you. Not fake happiness hiding jealousy, but real excitement. You need a friend who is actually more excited for you than if it happened to them. The second kind of friend is someone you call when everything goes wrong—when your life feels like it’s falling apart and you only get one phone call. Who would that be? Bill Campbell is both those friends.

I explained my thoughts like this: “We haven’t been able to find any investors in private markets. Our choices are to keep trying to get private funding or start getting ready to go public. Raising money privately looks really hard, but going public has a lot of problems: “Our sales aren’t strong, and it’s hard to predict anything right now.

“We aren’t in any normal situation; things are getting worse fast, and we don’t know when it will stop.

“Our customers are going bankrupt at a scary and unpredictable rate.

“We are losing money now and will keep losing money for a while.

“We aren’t running things well.

“In general, we aren’t ready to be a public company.” The board listened carefully. They looked worried, and a long silence followed. As expected, Bill finally spoke up.

“Ben, it’s not about the money.” I felt a weird kind of relief. Maybe we didn’t have to go public. Maybe our money problems weren’t as bad as I thought. Maybe there was another way.

Then Bill said again, “It’s the fucking money.” Okay, I guess we are going public.

Besides the problems I told the board about, our business was...

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
