The whole sales team had 150 people. On one call, a salesperson talked about an account he had planned carefully. He said, “I have support from my champion, the vice president he reports to, and the head of purchasing. My champion says they’ll finish the deal by the end of the quarter.” Mark quickly asked, “Have you talked to the vice president’s peer in the networking group?” The salesperson said, “Um, no I haven’t.” Mark asked, “Have you talked to the vice president yourself?” The salesperson said, “No.” Mark said, “Okay, listen up. First, take off your rose-colored glasses. Then clean your ears with a Q-tip. Finally, take off your pink panties and call the vice president right now, because you don’t have a deal.” Mark was right. The deal wasn’t real because the vice president’s peer was blocking it. We finally met with him and won the deal. More importantly, Mark made it clear: sloppy work wouldn’t be accepted.

Now that we had a better position, we went on the attack.

In my weekly staff meeting, I added a new topic: “What Are We Not Doing?” Usually, these meetings are about checking and improving what we already do—like making products, selling, helping customers, and hiring people. But sometimes, the things we aren’t doing are the things we should focus on.

In one meeting, after asking this question, everyone agreed: “We are not automating the network.” The first version of Opsware that we used at Loudcloud did automate the network, but the software wasn’t strong and had a weird user interface. So when we became a software company, we focused only on automating servers and forgot about the network. This worked for a few years, but now we had a chance to bring back network automation.

The problem was, the Jive software wasn’t good and couldn’t be turned into a product to sell. I had two choices: (a) start a new project or (b) buy one of four existing network automation companies. Early in my engineering career, I learned that before writing code, decisions are logical, but after you start coding, decisions become emotional. Luckily, I had John O’Farrell, the best negotiator in the industry, on my team, so I decided to
