When we got to his office, the place was really busy. Michael looked like he was doing a million things, but he finally came out to meet John and me. We told him what was going on: we were in a hurry, had two buyers, but no real reason to push them to finish the deal. Michael thought for a bit, then said, “Guys, I’ve done a lot of deals in my life, and I have a way I like to do things—a kind of rulebook.”

Part of that rulebook is that I believe in fake deadlines. I believe in making the buyers compete against each other. And I’ll do anything that’s not illegal or wrong to get the deal done.” Michael made everything super clear.

We thanked him and headed to the airport. We called both EDS and IBM and told them we would finish the deal in eight weeks. If they wanted to buy Loudcloud, they had to act fast or back out. That was the fake deadline Michael set. We knew we might have to go past it, but Michael made us feel like having a deadline was better than not having one.

After seven weeks, we made a deal with EDS. They would buy Loudcloud for $63.5 million in cash and take on its debts and expenses. We kept the intellectual property, called Opsware, and became a software company. EDS would pay us $20 million a year to use our software to run both Loudcloud and their bigger company. I thought it was a great deal for both sides. It was way better than going bankrupt. I felt like a huge weight was lifted off my shoulders.

I finally could breathe after eighteen months of stress. But it wasn’t going to be easy. Selling Loudcloud meant 150 employees would go to EDS and we’d have to lay off another 140.

I called Bill Campbell to share the good news: the deal was signed, and we’d announce it in New York on Monday. He said, “Too bad you can’t go to New York for the announcement; you’ll have to send Marc.” I asked, “Why?” He said, “You have to stay here and make sure everyone knows what’s happening. You can’t wait a day. Actually, you can’t wait even a minute. People need to know if they’re working for you, for EDS, or if they should start looking for a new job.” Damn, he was right. I sent Marc to New York and got ready to tell everyone what was going on. That advice from Bill was the key to rebuilding the company. If we hadn’t listened, things would’ve been way harder.
