When you’re trying to decide if you should sell your company, here’s a simple rule to remember. First, if (a) you’re very early in a huge market and (b) you have a good chance to be number one in that market, then you should keep your company on its own. 

The reason is that no one will be able to pay you what you’re really worth because they can’t promise that much future success. For example, think about Google. When they were just starting out, they got offers to buy the company for over $1 billion. That was a lot of money back then. But since the market they were going after was so huge, it didn’t make sense for Google to sell. Actually, no buyer could have paid enough because Google was building the best product and was going to be number one.

Now, compare this with Pointcast. Pointcast was one of the first popular internet apps. Everyone in Silicon Valley was talking about them. They got offers to buy the company for billions but said no. Later, their product had problems, and customers stopped using it. Suddenly, their market disappeared and never came back. In the end, they had to sell for a very small amount.

So, you need to decide two things: (a) Is the market really much bigger than what’s been used so far? (b) Are we going to be number one? If you answer no to either question, you should think about selling. But if the answer to both is yes, selling means you’re selling yourself and your team short.

These questions aren’t always easy to answer. You also have to figure out what the real market is and who your competitors will be. For example, was Google in the search market or the portal market? Looking back, they were in the search market, but most people thought they were in the portal market. Yahoo was strong in the portal market but not in search. If Google had been in the portal market, selling might have been a good idea. Pointcast thought their market was huge but it ended up being much smaller because of problems in their product.

Now, think about Opsware. Why did I sell Opsware? And why didn’t I sell it earlier? Those are good questions.  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
