So why did I make every manager go through management training? Why did I insist that managers have one-on-one meetings with their employees? After thinking a lot about it, I figured out the main reason. Then, I called the manager’s boss—let's call him Steve—and told him I needed to see him right away.

When Steve came into my office, I asked him, “Steve, do you know why I came to work today?” Steve said, “What do you mean, Ben?” I asked, “Why did I bother getting up? Why did I come in? If it was just for the money, I could sell the company tomorrow and have more money than I ever wanted. I don’t want to be famous, actually, I want the opposite.” Steve said, “I guess.” I said, “So, why did I come to work?” Steve said, “I don’t know.” I explained, “I came to work because it’s really important to me that Opsware is a good company. It matters that the people who spend twelve to sixteen hours a day here—most of their waking life—have a good life. That’s why I come to work.” Steve said, “Okay.” I asked, “Do you know the difference between a good place to work and a bad place to work?” Steve said, “Umm, I think so.” I asked, “What is the difference?” Steve said, “Umm, well...” I said, “Let me explain it to you. In good companies, people can focus on their work and trust that if they do their job, good things will happen for both the company and themselves. It’s really great to work in a place like this. Everyone can wake up knowing that their work will be useful, effective, and make a difference for both the company and themselves. This makes their jobs fun and rewarding.

But in bad companies, people spend a lot of time dealing with problems inside the company, fighting with each other, and dealing with broken systems. They don’t even really know what their jobs are, so they can’t tell if they’re doing well or not. Even if they work crazy hours and finish their work, they don’t know what it means for the company or their own careers. To make things even worse, when they finally...
