It was really confusing and hard for investors to understand. We usually signed customers to two-year contracts and counted the money we made each month. This way of doing things is normal now, but back then it was unusual. Because our bookings grew so fast, the money we made came in much slower than the bookings. So, in our official report to the SEC, we said we made $1.94 million in the last six months and expected to make $75 million the next year—a huge jump. Since we make money based on revenue, not bookings, we lost a lot of money. Also, the stock option rules back then made our losses look about four times bigger than they really were. Because of all this, the press wrote very negative stories before our IPO.

One harsh article in Red Herring said we had very few customers and depended too much on dot-com companies. It quoted an analyst who said we lost about $1 million per employee in the last year and joked that we must have been burning money in the parking lot to lose that much. BusinessWeek wrote a tough article calling us “the IPO from hell.” A Wall Street Journal cover story quoted a money manager who said, “Wow, they were desperate.” One investor who did put money in said it was “the best choice among a really bad set of options.” Even with all the bad press, we got ready to start selling the stock. We looked at similar companies and decided to set the price at $10 per share after a reverse split. This gave the company a value just under $700 million—less than before, but way better than going bankrupt.

It wasn’t clear if we would succeed. The stock market was crashing, and the investors we met looked worried.

At the end of all the prep and after the banks agreed, our finance director, Scott Kupor, got a call from our banker at Morgan Stanley.

Banker: “Scott, did you know that $27.6 million of your cash is tied up in real estate and can’t be used?”  
Scott: “Yes, of course.”  
Banker: “So, you only have about three weeks of cash left before you go bankrupt?”  
Scott: “Yes.”  

My name is Sandeep Gautam.
