“Come late to practice? Turn your stuff in. Don’t want to hit? Turn your stuff in. Walk on the grass? Turn your stuff in. Call me Chico? Turn your stuff in.” It was the most intense, funny, and poetic speech I’d ever heard. I loved it. I couldn’t wait to get home and tell my mom. She was shocked, but I still loved it. Looking back, it was my first lesson in leadership. Colin Powell, a former secretary of state, says leadership means getting people to follow you, even if they’re just curious. I was definitely curious to hear what Coach Mendoza would say next.

I was the only kid on the football team who was also in the hardest math classes, so I didn’t see my teammates much at school. Because of that, I ended up hanging out with different groups of people who saw the world in totally different ways. It amazed me how different views could change how people understood big events in the world.

For example, when Run-D.M.C. released their Hard Times album with its strong bass drum, it shook the football team but didn’t even get noticed in my calculus class. Ronald Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative was seen as a crazy idea by young scientists because it didn’t really make sense technically, but no one at football practice cared about that.

Seeing the world through these different views helped me tell facts apart from opinions. This skill helped me a lot later when I became a business owner and CEO. When things looked really bad and the “facts” seemed to say only one thing could happen, I learned to look for other explanations from very different points of view. Just knowing another possible story could keep hope alive for worried workers.

BLIND DATE

In the summer of 1986, I had finished my second year at Columbia University, and I was staying with my dad in Los Angeles. My friend and high school football teammate Claude Shaw set me up on a blind date. Claude and I got ready for a double date with his girlfriend, Jackie Williams, and my date, Felicia Wiley, by making a fancy dinner. We planned and cooked all day and had everything ready at 7 p.m.—the time the dates were supposed to arrive. But no one showed up. An hour passed, but we didn’t get too upset.
