Looking back, I shouldn’t have asked the team to make the quarters flat. If that’s what I wanted, I needed to be okay with smaller quarters, at least for a while. We had a set number of salespeople who were trying to make each quarter as big as possible. To get flat quarters, they had to change how they worked and what they focused on. But honestly, I preferred the old way of trying to make the most money each quarter.

Given the situation, I got pretty lucky. Sun Tzu, a famous military thinker, says that giving your team a task they can’t do is like ruining your whole army. I didn’t ruin my team, but I messed up my priorities. I should have decided from the start what was more important: making each quarter as big as possible or making the results more predictable. The instruction I gave only made sense if I wanted predictability more.

FOCUSING TOO MUCH ON THE NUMBERS

In another example, I managed the team based on numbers that didn’t really show what I wanted. I wanted a great product that customers would love, with high quality and delivered on time—in that order.

But the numbers I used didn’t show those priorities. Numbers act like incentives. By measuring quality, features, and schedule and talking about them all the time, my team focused only on those numbers and ignored other important goals. The numbers didn’t show the real goals, so I ended up confusing the team.

I see this problem a lot in new internet companies. Teams often focus too much on numbers about getting and keeping customers. This usually helps get new customers, but not so much in keeping them.

Why? For many products, numbers explain getting new customers well enough to guide management. But numbers for keeping customers don’t give enough detail to manage properly. So, many young companies focus too much on keeping customers by the numbers and don’t spend enough time improving the user experience. This leads to a crazy chase after numbers that doesn’t make a great product. It’s important to have a clear product vision and also watch the numbers, but if you only focus on numbers and forget the vision, you won’t get what you want.

my name is sandeep gautam
