NOTE ON THE TEXT This edition of The Souls of Black Folk reproduces the text of the first edition, published by A. C. McClurg and Company on 18 April 1903.
 
 Nine of the fourteen chapters in the volume were revisions of essays originally published in various periodicals. The first chapter, ‘Of Our Spiritual Strivings’, is a revision of ‘Strivings of the Negro People’, Atlantic Monthly (August 1897); Chapter II, ‘Of the Dawn of Freedom’, is a revision of ‘The Freedman’s Bureau’, Atlantic Monthly (March 1901); Chapter III, ‘Of Mr. Booker T. Washington and Others’, is a revision and expansion of ‘The Evolution of Negro Leadership’, The Dial (16 July 1901); Chapter IV, ‘Of the Meaning of Progress’, is a revision of ‘A Negro Schoolmaster in the New South’,Atlantic Monthly (January 1899); Chapter VI, ‘Of the Training of Black Men’, is a revision of an essay published under the same title in the Atlantic Monthly (September 1902); Chapter VII, ‘Of the Black Belt’, and Chapter VIII, ‘Of the Quest of the Golden Fleece’, are revisions drawn from a single essay, ‘The Negro as He Really Is’, World’s Work (June 1901); Chapter IX, ‘Of the Sons of Master and Man’, is a revision of ‘The Relation of Negroes to the Whites in the South’, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science (July–December 1901); Chapter X, ‘Of the Faith of the Fathers’, is a revision of ‘The Religion of the American Negro’, New World: A Quarterly Review of Religion, Ethics and Theology (December1900).
 
 Chapter V, ‘Of the Wings of Atalanta’; Chapter IX, ‘Of the Passing of the First-Born’; Chapter XII, ‘Of Alexander Crummell’; Chapter XIII, ‘Of the Coming of John’; and Chapter XIV, ‘The Sorrow Songs’, were written expressly for The Souls of Black Folk.
 
 The book enjoyed great success; McClurg published twenty-four editions between 1903 and 1940, and in 1935 the publisher informed Du Bois that the book had sold fifteen thousand copies. In January 1949 Du Bois bought the original plates from McClurg for one hundred dollars. In the fall of 1953, a Fiftieth Anniversary Jubilee Edition of The Souls of Black Folk was published by Blue Heron Press in New York.
 
