xxii Introduction perfectability, are veiled, unanswered sphinxes on the shores of science.
 
 Why should Æschylus have sung two thousand years before Shakespeare was born? Why has civilization flourished in Europe, and flickered, flamed, and died in Africa? So long as the world stands meekly dumb before such questions, shall this nation proclaim its ignorance and unhallowed prejudices by denying freedom of opportunity to those who brought the Sorrow Songs to the Seats of the Mighty? (p. 175) The Souls of Black Folk has been described as an ‘orchestrated’ text.
 
 This is clearly an allusion to the formal and symbolic role of music in its pages; but it is also a reference to what the critic Vilashini Cooppan has usefully termed Du Bois’s ‘dialectical formalism’.27 Throughout, at every level of structure from the paired epigraphs to the opening and closing statements of the book, The Souls of Black Folk is an interwoven pattern of thesis and antithesis, ‘forethought’ and‘afterthought’. The most illuminating instance may be the opening of Chapter VI, ‘Of the Training of Black Men’, in which Du Bois invokes a vision of modernity inaugurated within and through the slave trade, ‘many thoughts ago’. From that origin, there ‘have flowed down to our day three streams of thinking’, he writes. First, the imperative of internationalism on the basis of an idealist universalism (the thought that ‘the multiplying of human wants in culturelands calls for the world-wide coöperation of men in satisfying them, pulling the ends of earth nearer, and all men, black, yellow, and white’), met by an afterthought that critiques that idealism by noting that the history of the world is a record less of universalism than of inequity, exploitation, ‘force and dominion’. Second, the thesis of racism––that ‘somewhere between men and cattle, God created a tertium quid, and called it a Negro’––countered by a reformist humanist argument that ‘some of them with favoring chance might become men’ (pp. 63–4). And third, the ‘thought of the things themselves’, the African American demand for civil rights and equal opportunity, undermined by self-doubt and internalized racism: ‘suppose, after all, the World is right and we are less than men?’ These ‘streams of thinking’ leave us, Du Bois writes, with a ‘tangle of thought and afterthought wherein we are called to solve the problem of training men for life’ (p. 64). If such a problematic ‘tangle’ 27 Stepto, From Beyond the Veil, 52; Vilashini Cooppan, ‘The Double Politics of Double Consciousness: Nationalism and Globalism in Souls’, Public Culture, 17/2 (Spring2005),308.
 
