xxxii Chronology 1910 Accepts position in New York as the Director of Publications and Research of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Founds and edits the civil rights organization’s monthly journal The Crisis.
 
 1911 Attends Universal Races Congress in London. Publishes first novel, The Quest of the Silver Fleece. Becomes a member of the Socialist Party.
 
 1912 Supports Woodrow Wilson’s candidacy for president; resigns from the Socialist Party.
 
 1913 Composes and produces The Star of Ethiopia, a pageant celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation.
 
 1914 Writes editorials in The Crisis in support of women’s suffrage.
 
 Argues that the First World War is the result of rivalry among European states over colonial possessions, especially in Africa, but supports the Allied effort nonetheless.
 
 1915 Booker T. Washington dies in November. Du Bois publishes The Negro. Organizes protests against D. W. Griffith’s inflammatory film,The Birth of a Nation.
 
 1918 Writes an editorial, ‘Close Ranks’, published in July in The Crisis, arguing that blacks should support the war effort. Travels to Europe in December for the NAACP to study the situation of black troops.
 
 1919 Organizes the First Pan-African Congress in Paris, France, a gathering of fifty-seven delegates from the United States, the Caribbean, Europe, and Africa.
 
 1920 Publishes Darkwater: Voices from within the Veil, a collection of essays, fiction, and poetry. Founds and edits The Brownies’ Book, a monthly magazine for black children.
 
 1921 Second Pan-African Congress held in London, Brussels, and Paris.
 
 1922 Advocates the passage of the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill, which is blocked in the US Senate.
 
 1923 Third Pan-African Congress held in Lisbon.
 
 1924 Publishes The Gift of Black Folk: The Negroes in the Making of America.
 
 1925 Du Bois’s essay ‘The Negro Mind Reaches Out’,first published inForeign Affairs, is included in the anthology The New Negro, Chronology xxxiii the important collection of Harlem Renaissance writings edited by Alain Locke.
 
