xvi Introduction second sentence of the ‘Forethought’––to the prophetic and accusatory, as in the acid words to ‘Southern Gentlemen’ in Chapter VI, ‘Of the Training of Black Men’: ‘Even to-day the masses of the Negroes see all too clearly the anomalies of their position and the moral crookedness of yours. You may marshal strong indictments against them, but their counter-cries, lacking though they be in formal logic, have burning truths within them which you may not wholly ignore, O Southern Gentlemen!’ (p. 74). In the main, these modes of address allow Du Bois to compel the reader into a confrontation with the realities of black life in the South. Often ‘you’ are explicitly invited on a journey ‘within the Veil’ with Du Bois as he surveys the ‘Egypt of the Confederacy’, above all in the middle chapters of the book. The most famous example occurs near the beginning of Chapter VII, ‘Of the Black Belt’, where Du Bois explains: If you wish to ride with me you must come into the ‘Jim Crow Car.’ There will be no objection,––already four other white men, and a little white girl with her nurse, are in there. Usually the races are mixed in there; but the white coach is all white. Of course this car is not so good as the other, but it is fairly clean and comfortable. The discomfort lies chiefly in the hearts of those four black men yonder––and in mine. (pp. 78–9).
 
 With passages like this one, The Souls of Black Folk makes its readers ‘fellow travellers’ in an attempt to unmake their innermost racial conditioning and reflexes, forcing them to see black life through black eyes.
 
 This moral and historical re-education of the reader (which runs parallel to Du Bois’s calls for the education of the Negro) is simultaneously an argument about the proper approach to the study of the ‘Negro problem’. In the late 1890s, Du Bois had been thoroughly committed to the sociological study of race. If the method is first apparent in The Philadelphia Negro, it becomes a long-term collaborative plan with Du Bois’s editorial direction of the Atlanta University Studies. Years later, he explained that ‘the Negro problem was in my mind a matter of systematic investigation and intelligent understanding. The world was thinking wrong about race, because it did not know. The ultimate evil was stupidity. The cure for it was knowledge based on scientific investigation.’18 Du Bois’s 18 Du Bois, Dusk of Dawn,597.
 
