Introduction ix ‘magnify’ history into a narrative of social significance, transforming ‘data into metaphor’.6 By the time The Souls of Black Folk was published, Du Bois had already achieved recognition as one of the leading lights of the African American intellectual elite at the turn of the century. Born in 1868 in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, he had studied at Fisk, the black college in Nashville, Tennessee, before pursuing a second BA and an MA degree at Harvard, where he worked with some of the most important scholars of the time, including Frank Taussig in economics, Albert Bushnell Hart in history, and William James and George Santayana in philosophy. Du Bois continued his graduate work on fellowship at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin, returning to the United States to become the first African American to receive a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1895. During the next seven years, Du Bois held three teaching positions (at Wilberforce University in Ohio, the University of Pennsylvania, and Atlanta University), and established himself as an energetic and gifted scholar with the publication of his doctoral thesis, The Suppression of the African Slave-Trade to the United States of America, 1638–1870 (1896), and The Philadelphia Negro (1899). At Atlanta University, he founded and directed a groundbreaking series of sociological studies of black life, and organized a yearly series of conferences of black social scientists. He had also gained a reputation for his many articles and reviews in a wide variety of periodicals, of which the eight pieces revised for inclusion in The Souls of Black Folk are only a small sample. By 1903, his essays had appeared in many of the prominent popular and academic American periodicals of the time, including The Independent, The Nation, The Southern Workman, Harper’s Weekly,The World’s Work,The Outlook,The Missionary Review,The Literary Digest, the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences,The Dial, and The Brooklyn Eagle.
 
 In his 1940 autobiography Dusk of Dawn, Du Bois describes the genesis of The Souls of Black Folk as almost haphazard: I had been asked ... by A. C. McClurg and Company of Chicago if I did 6 See Du Bois, Dusk of Dawn: An Essay toward an Autobiography of a Race Concept (1940), collected in Writings (New York: Library of America, 1986),531. The phrase ‘data into metaphor’ is adopted from Robert Stepto, From Behind the Veil: A Study of Afro-American Narrative (1979; 2nd edn., Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1991),53.
 
