A seemingly modest collection of fourteen pieces framed by a preface and afterword, the book made an immediate impact on American political debate, erupting with the sudden brilliance of ‘fireworks going off in a cemetery’.1 It launched its author, William Edward Burghardt Du Bois, an ambitious 35-year-old African American professor of sociology at Atlanta University, into international prominence as an authoritative voice on what was then termed the ‘Negro problem’. With its unusual polyphony of genres––autobiography, history, political criticism, sociology, ethnography, biography, eulogy, fiction––the book has had a formative influence on the entire tradition of African American writing that has followed in its wake. As literary critic Arnold Rampersad has written: ‘If all of a nation’s literature may stem from one book, as Hemingway implied about The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, then it can as accurately be said that all of Afro-American literature of a creative nature has proceeded from Du Bois’s comprehensive statement on the nature of the people in The Souls of Black Folk.’2 One finds its formal strategies and rhetorical daring echoed in novels from James Weldon Johnson’s The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man (1912) to Ralph Ellison’sInvisible Man (1952) and Toni Morrison’s Song of Solomon (1977) and beyond. Yet Du Bois’s work has been equally central to African American non-fiction and scholarship on race, history, and politics. Ten years after its publication, the black intellectual William H. Ferris called The Souls of Black Folk ‘the political Bible of the negro race’.3 It is one of the very rare books that marks the threshold of its historical era (the ‘dawning of the Twentieth Century’, to use Du Bois’s phrase), both 1 David Levering Lewis, W. E. B. Du Bois: Biography of a Race, 1868–1919 (New York: Henry Holt, 1993),277.
 
 2 Arnold Rampersad, The Art and Imagination of W. E. B. Du Bois (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1976),89.
 
 3 William H. Ferris, The African Abroad; or, His Evolution in Western Civilization, vol. i (New Haven: Tuttle, Morhouse, and Taylor, 1913),276.
 
