Introduction xvii perspective was transformed by two terrible events in 1899. That April, he was appalled by the vicious lynching of Sam Hose, an agricultural worker who had been accused of murder in Palmetto, Georgia, outside Atlanta. Du Bois had written a carefully reasoned letter in protest at the lynching, and he was on his way to deliver it to the offices of the Atlanta Constitution when he learned that Hose had been tortured, burnt, and dismembered by a mob of more than 2,000 people. The horror of this episode shook Du Bois’s faith in the rational tools of sociology as a means of confronting racism in the South. Then, on 24 May, the young professor’s infant son Burghardt died after a brief illness. The compounded tragedies had a lasting effect on Du Bois’s sense of his intellectual vocation. As he described it,‘two considerations thereafter broke in upon my work and eventually disrupted it: first, one could not be a calm, cool, and detached scientist while Negroes were lynched, murdered and starved; and secondly, there was no such definite demand for scientific work of the sort that I was doing, as I had confidently assumed would be easily forthcoming’.19 InThe Souls of Black Folk, these events reverberate in a recurring criticism of a certain kind of sociology, the scholarship of what the first chapter calls the ‘cold statistician’ (p. 11). This critique is most devastatingly announced in Chapter VIII, ‘Of the Quest of the Golden Fleece’, in the satire of the ‘car-window sociologist ... who seeks to understand and know the South by devoting the few leisure hours of a holiday trip to unravelling the snarl of centuries’ (p. 105).
 
 Instead, Du Bois insists on a method of what in the same chapter is termed ‘intimate contact’, which requires the slow and patient, face-to-face investigation of the complexities of human life, rather than generalization about social classes from an untroubled remove: We seldom study the condition of the Negro to-day honestly and carefully. It is so much easier to assume that we know it all. Or perhaps, having already reached conclusions in our own minds, we are loth to have them disturbed by facts. And yet how little we really know of these millions,–– of their daily lives and longings, of their homely joys and sorrow, of their real shortcomings and the meaning of their crimes! All this we can only learn by intimate contact with the masses, and not by wholesale arguments covering millions separate in time and space, and differing widely in training and culture. (p. 94) 19 Ibid.,603.
 
