The Thing itself sits clear before you; but when you have dressed it out in periods it seems fearfully uncouth and inchoate. Nevertheless, as the feeling is deep the greater the impelling force to seek to express it. And here the feeling was deep.
 
 In its larger aspects the style is tropical––African. This needs no apology. The blood of my fathers spoke through me and cast off the English restraint of my training and surroundings. The resulting accomplishment is a matter of taste. Sometimes I think very well of it and sometimes I do not.
 
 ‘The Souls of the Black Folk’,The Independent vol. 57, no. 2920 (17 Nov. 1904) [In1953, Blue Heron Press in New York published a Fiftieth Anniversary Jubilee Edition of The Souls of the Black Folk. Du Bois wrote a new preface specifically for the new edition, reflecting upon the circumstances of the book’s original publication, its enduring significance, and some of what he considered to be its limitations.] Late in the Nineteenth Century, there developed in Chicago a movement to build a literary and publishing center in the Mid-West. The Brownes, father and son, editors for A. C. McClurg & Company, began looking about for young and unknown authors. I had just published my first two books: a history of the Suppression of the African Slave Trade to America, which appeared as the first volume of the new Harvard Historical Studies in 1896. My Philadelphia Negro was published by the University of Pennsylvania in 1899. I had also written a few essays which had been accepted by the Atlantic Monthly, the Dial and some other periodicals.
 
 The McClurg editors wrote me about 1900, asking if I did not have material for a book which they could consider. I was at the time just embarking at Atlanta University on what I hoped to make my life work; it was to be a broad and exhaustive study of the Negro Problem in the United States. I outlined this project to the editors, but they naturally wanted something more limited and aimed at a popular audience. I therefore undertook to assemble some of my published and unpublished essays, adding a few new ones.
 
 They liked the proposed book and offered publication. I hesitated because I was sure that with more time and thought I could do a better job; in so many respects this was incomplete and unsatisfactory. But finally I plucked up courage and sent the manuscript off, and fifty years ago, the souls of black folk appeared. It was well received and for the next generation it ran into a number of editions.
 
