x Introduction not have some material for a book; I planned a social study which should be perhaps a summing up of the work of the Atlanta Conferences, or at any rate, a scientific investigation. They asked, however, if I did not have some essays that they might put together and issue immediately, mentioning my articles in the Atlantic Monthly and other places. I demurred because books of essays almost always fall so flat. Nevertheless, I got together a number of my fugitive pieces.7 Even after the success of the book, Du Bois described with some consternation the ‘considerable, perhaps too great, diversity’ of the selections.8 In such statements, as the historian Herbert Aptheker has pointed out, Du Bois was ‘excessively modest in terms of the labors that went into his preparation of Souls’.9 First, he thoroughly revised the previously published essays, in some cases to an extent that there is little resemblance between their original form and the shape of the chapters in The Souls of Black Folk. Second, he added a great deal of new material, both in the process of revision and in the inclusion of new individual pieces: Chapter V, ‘Of the Wings of Atalanta’; Chapter XI, ‘Of the Passing of the First-Born’; Chapter XII, ‘Of Alexander Crummell’; Chapter XIII, ‘Of the Coming of John’; and Chapter XIV, ‘The Sorrow Songs’, were all composed expressly for The Souls of Black Folk. If in the ‘Forethought’, Du Bois pointedly if undramatically describes the sections of the book as ‘chapters’ rather than a gathering of individual ‘essays’, it is in recognition of the extensive labour that had gone into the preparation of the volume, in which each section was ‘cut, polished, and mounted with a jeweler’s precision’.10 Each chapter serves its purpose in a carefully constructed whole, outlined by Du Bois in the ‘Forethought’. First, ‘Of Our Spiritual Strivings’ sets the tone of the entire book, describing the ‘unreconciled’ conflict that defines African American life after the Civil War, when a collective desire for participation in the modern ‘kingdom of culture’ has been repeatedly undermined by a relentless tide of racism––blocked by what Du Bois terms a ‘Veil’ of prejudice. ‘Of the Dawn of Freedom’ extends this theme with a history of the Freedmen’s Bureau, the abandoned effort of the US government to 7 Du Bois, Dusk of Dawn,612.
 
 8 Du Bois, ‘The Souls of Black Folk’,The Independent,1152.
 
 9 Herbert Aptheker, ‘Introduction’ to Du Bois, The Souls of Black Folk (Millwood, NY: Kraus-Thomson Organization, Ltd., 1973),7.
 
 10 Lewis, Du Bois: Biography,278.
 
