viii Introduction by articulating the political demands, cultural accomplishments, and ‘spiritual strivings’ of an entire people, and at the same time by setting the definitive terms of debate for a national dialogue about the significance of race in the lingering aftermath of the slave trade.
 
 William H. Ferris wrote that Du Bois was one of those uncommon men who achieved prominence as an intellectual and political leader by ‘impressing his personality upon men by means of a book’.4 Certainly, from the opening ‘Forethought’, in which Du Bois masterfully ushers his reader into the first chapter with a powerful allusion to the Book of Genesis (‘need I add that I who speak here am bone of the bone and flesh of the flesh of them that live within the Veil?’, p. 4), The Souls of Black Folk is animated and assembled by the force of his singular perspective. Du Bois himself notes that there is a ‘unity of purpose in the distinctively subjective note’ of ‘self-revelation’ in each of the pieces in the book.5 Nevertheless, it would be inaccurate to describe the book as simply or predominantly autobiographical in orientation. Throughout its pages, the book enacts a subtle and shifting calibration of pronouns, alternating among a variety of stances including individual testimony (‘between me and the other world there is ever an unasked question’, p. 7); collective struggle (‘storm and stress to-day rocks our little boat’, p. 13); third-person observation (‘he simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both a Negro and an American’, p. 9); and second-person plea or accusation (‘receive my little book in all charity’, p. 3). The effect of these changes is that the book’s object of study––the‘spiritual world in which ten thousand thousand Americans live and strive’––is rendered elusive, a ‘sketch, in vague, uncertain outline’ (p. 3): a space continually transformed by the impact of history, rather than some fixed, inert phenomenon to be grasped and observed. The book implies that even the scholar, the modern wielder of instrumental reason, cannot claim the pretence of objectivity in the study of human affairs. On the contrary, the avowal of one’s particular position and perspective in the world can 4 Ferris, The African Abroad ..., i. 276.
 
 5 W. E. B. Du Bois, ‘The Souls of Black Folk’,The Independent57/2920 (17 Nov.
 
 1904),1152. This self-review is included in Appendix III to this edition.
 
