Chronology xxxv 1951 Indicted in February with four others from the Peace Information Center under the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938.
 
 Marries Shirley Graham, a writer and activist. Undertakes national lecture tour in order to pay the legal fees for his defence. Acquitted in November.
 
 1952 US Department of State denies Du Bois a passport when he refuses to sign an affidavit stating that he is not a member of the Communist Party. Publishes In Battle for Peace.
 
 1953 Participates in campaign to support accused Soviet spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Publishes eulogy for Stalin in the National Guardian. Awarded International Peace Prize by the World Peace Council.
 
 1954 Reacts with surprise to the Supreme Court Brown decision outlawing segregation in public schools; Du Bois writes, ‘I have seen the impossible happen.’ 1955 Travels to Grenada and Barbados. Refused passport for trip to attend the World Youth Festival in Poland.
 
 1956 Sends a message of support to the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., during the Montgomery bus boycott. Refused passport for trip to lecture in China. Refused passport to attend the First International Congress of Black Writers and Artists sponsored by Présence Africaine in Paris.
 
 1957 Publishes the historical novel The Ordeal of Mansart, the first book in the trilogy The Black Flame. Refused passport to attend Ghanaian independence ceremonies.
 
 1958 Ninetieth birthday celebration held at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York; two thousand people attend the event. Starts writing a new autobiographical work (published posthumously as The Autobiography of W. E. B. Du Bois). Receives his passport after the US Supreme Court rejects the requirement for a political affidavit. Departs in August on world tour, visiting Europe and the Soviet Union. Awarded honorary Doctor of Economics degree by Humboldt (formerly Friedrich Wilhelm) University in East Berlin.
 
 1959 Spends two months in China. Returns to the United States at the end of the summer, voyaging through the Soviet Union, Sweden, and England. Awarded the International Lenin Prize in September. Publishes Mansart Builds a School, the second volume of The Black Flame.
 
 1960 Travels to Ghana and Nigeria.
 
