The Negro Academy should stand and proclaim this over the housetops, crying with Garrison:*I will not equivocate, I will not retreat a single inch, and I will be heard. The Academy should seek to gather about it the talented, unselfish men, the pure and noble-minded women, to fight an army of devils that disgraces our manhood and our womanhood. There does not stand today upon God’s earth a race more capable in muscle, in intellect, in morals, than the American Negro, if he will bend his energies in the right direction; if he will Burst his birth’s invidious bar And grasp the skirts of happy chance, And breast the blows of circumstance, And grapple with his evil star.* In science and morals, I have indicated two fields of work for the Academy. Finally, in practical policy, I wish to suggest the following Academy Creed: 1. We believe that the Negro people, as a race, have a contribution to make to civilization and humanity, which no other race can make.
 
 2. We believe it the duty of the Americans of Negro descent, as a body, to maintain their race identity until this mission of the Negro people is accomplished, and the ideal of human brotherhood has become a practical possibility.
 
 3. We believe that, unless modern civilization is a failure, it is entirely feasible and practicable for two races in such essential political, economic, and religious harmony as the white and colored people of America, to develop side by side in peace and mutual happiness, the peculiar contribution which each has to make to the culture of their common country.
 
 4. As a means to this end we advocate, not such social equality between these races as would disregard human likes and dislikes, but such a social equilibrium as would, throughout all the complicated relations of life, give due and just consideration to culture, ability, and moral worth, whether they be found under white or black skins.
 
 5. We believe that the first and greatest step toward the settlement of the present friction between the races––commonly called the Negro Problem––lies in the correction of the immorality, crime and laziness among the Negroes themselves, which still remains as a heritage from slavery. We believe that only earnest and long continued efforts on our own part can cure these social ills.
 
 6. We believe that the second great step toward a better adjustment of the relations between the races, should be a more impartial selection of 188 Appendix I ability in the economic and intellectual world, and a greater respect for personal liberty and worth, regardless of race.
 
