1897 Accepts faculty position in economics and history at Atlanta University. Helps to found the American Negro Academy, a society for the promotion of black scholarly achievement.
 
 Delivers address ‘The Conservation of Races’ to the Academy.
 
 Begins to edit the Atlanta University Studies (1898–1914), a sociological series devoted to the study of black life. His first child, son Burghardt Gomer Du Bois, is born in Great Barrington on 2 October.
 
 1899 Publishes The Philadelphia Negro. Burghardt Gomer Du Bois dies on 24 May in Atlanta.
 
 1900 Attends the First Pan-African Conference in London, organized by the Trinidadian lawyer Henry Sylvester Williams. As secretary, writes the closing address of the conference, in which he declares that ‘the problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the colour line’. Assembles an exhibit on black American life and economic development for the Paris Exposition, and is awarded the grand prize. Daughter Nina Yolande is born on 21 October in Great Barrington.
 
 1902 Offered teaching position at Tuskegee Institute by Booker T.
 
 Washington; Du Bois declines.
 
 1903 Publishes The Souls of Black Folk in April. ‘The Talented Tenth’ is printed in the collection The Negro Problem.
 
 1905 Helps to found the Niagara Movement, a group of black leaders who work to promote the full civil and economic rights of the black population. Founds and edits The Moon Illustrated Weekly, a magazine published in Memphis.
 
 1906 Second conference of the Niagara Movement. The Moon Illustrated Weekly ceases publication in the summer. Atlanta race riots in September. Du Bois writes the poem ‘A Litany of Atlanta’.
 
 1907 Du Bois founds and edits Horizon, a monthly journal that continues to publish until 1910. Niagara Movement suffers increasing difficulties due to financial problems and political dissension.
 
 1909 Joins the recently founded National Negro Committee (the precursor of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People). Fifth and last conference of the Niagara Movement. Publishes the biography John Brown.
 
