” “Why, no,––but Sally, our girl, told my wife a lot of rot. Then, too, I don’t need to heah: a Nigger what won’t say ‘sir’ to a white man, or––” “Who is this John?” interrupted the son.
 
 “Why, it’s little black John, Peggy’s son,––your old play-fellow.” The young man’s face flushed angrily, and then he laughed.
 
 “Oh,” said he, “it’s the darky that tried to force himself into a seat beside the lady I was escorting––” But Judge Henderson waited to hear no more. He had been nettled all day, and now at this he rose with a half-smothered oath, took his hat and cane, and walked straight to the schoolhouse.
 
 For John, it had been a long, hard pull to get things started in the rickety old shanty that sheltered his school. The Negroes were rent into factions for and against him, the parents were careless, the children irregular and dirty, and books, pencils, and slates largely missing. Nevertheless, he struggled hopefully on, and seemed to see at last some glimmering of dawn. The attendance was larger and the children were a shade cleaner this week. Even the booby class in reading showed a little comforting progress. So John settled himself with renewed patience this afternoon.
 
 “Now, Mandy,” he said cheerfully, “that’s better; but you mustn’t chop your words up so: ‘If––the––man––goes.” Why, your little brother even wouldn’t tell a story that way, now would he?” “Naw, suh, he cain’t talk.” “All right; now let’s try again: ‘If the man––’” “John!” The whole school started in surprise, and the teacher half arose, as the red, angry face of the Judge appeared in the open doorway.
 
 “John, this school is closed. You children can go home and get to work. The white people of Altamaha are not spending their money on black folks to have their heads crammed with impudence and lies.
 
 Clear out! I’ll lock the door myself.” Up at the great pillared house the tall young son wandered aimlessly about after his father’s abrupt departure. In the house there was little to interest him; the books were old and stale, the local newspaper flat, and the women had retired with headaches and sewing. He tried a nap, but it was too warm. So he sauntered out into the fields, complaining disconsolately, “Good Lord! how long will this Of the Coming of John 165 imprisonment last!
 
