War isn’t just about losing control or getting really angry; it’s about trying to reach a political goal. How much effort and time you spend on the war depends on how important that goal is. If fighting costs more than the goal is worth, you have to give up and try to make peace.

If one side can’t completely defeat the other, both sides’ wish for peace will go up or down based on how likely they think winning is and how hard it will be. If both sides want peace equally, they’ll probably meet halfway and settle things. But if one side wants peace more than the other, the side that wants it less will usually get a better deal.

There’s one thing we’re ignoring for now – how the good or bad nature of the political goals changes things. This is important, but we need to look at the bigger picture first because these goals can change during the war depending on what happens.

Now, how can a side win more easily? One way is to aim for goals that make the enemy collapse, like destroying their army or taking their land. But that’s not the same as wanting to totally defeat them. If you plan to keep attacking until the enemy is completely beaten, that’s different from just winning one battle to scare them or show you’re stronger. If your goal is just one win, you won’t use more effort than you need.

Taking land is also different depending on your goal. If you want total victory, destroying the enemy’s army is the main goal, and taking land happens because of that. Taking land before beating their army is just something you have to do, not the main point. But if your goal is to make the enemy worried about losing everything, then taking land might help. If this makes the enemy scared enough about losing the war, it can help bring peace faster.

There’s another way to improve your chances without defeating the enemy’s army. You can do actions that affect politics directly, like breaking up the enemy’s team, stopping them from working together, gaining new friends, or changing the political situation. If you can do these things, they can help you win faster than just fighting the enemy’s army.
