I propose to consider first the various elements of the subject, next its various parts or sections, and finally the whole in its internal structure. In other words, I shall proceed from the simple to the complex. But in war more than in any other subject we must begin by looking at the nature of the whole; for here more than elsewhere the part and the whole must always be thought of together.
 
 DEFINITION 2.
 
 I shall not begin by expounding a pedantic, literary definition of war, but go straight to the heart of the matter, to the duel. War is nothing but a duel on a larger scale. Countless duels go to make up war, but a picture of it as a whole can be formed by imagining a pair of wrestlers. Each tries through physical force to compel the other to do his will; his immediate aim is to throw his opponent in order to make him incapable of further resistance.
 
 War is thus an act of force to compel our enemy to do our will.
 
 Force, to counter opposing force, equips itself with the inventions of art and science. Attached to force are certain self-imposed, imperceptible limitations hardly worth mentioning, known as international law and custom, but they scarcely weaken it. Force-that is, physical force, for moral force has no existence save as expressed in the state and the law-is thus the means of war; to impose our will on the enemy is its object. To secure that .d object we must render the enemy powerless; and that, in theory, is the true e vre aim of warfare. That aim takes the place of the object, discarding it as se r sth something not actually part of war itself.
 
 g ir llA .}re h silb Kind-hearted people might of course think there was some ingenious way to u P disarm or defeat an enemy without too much bloodshed, and might imagine {$ .}e this is the true goal of the art of war. Pleasant as it sounds, it is a fallacy ta D that must be exposed: war is such a dangerous business that the mistakes {$ © which come from kindness are the very worst. The maximum use of force th g is in no way incompatible with the simultaneous use of the intellect. If iryp o one side uses force without compunction, undeterred by the bloodshed it C BOOK ONE involves, while the other side refrains, the first will gain the upper hand.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
