CHAPTER ONE  

War is about using force, and there’s no real limit to how much force can be used. Because each side tries to outdo the other, this back-and-forth can push things to the extreme. This is the first example of how two sides interact and reach an extreme point.  

I already said that the goal of war is to take away the enemy’s weapons or ability to fight. Now, I’ll explain why this has to be true, at least in theory. If you want your enemy to give up, you have to make their situation worse than the sacrifice you want them to make. The bad situation can’t just be temporary, or the enemy will wait it out until things get better. Any continuing fighting must make things even harder for the enemy.  

The worst place for a fighter is to be completely defenseless. So, to force the enemy to do what you want in war, you have to either make them defenseless or put them in danger of losing their defenses. This means the goal of war is always to beat or disarm the enemy.  

But war isn’t one person fighting a lifeless target—both sides are alive and fighting back. The goal of war applies to both sides. Until I defeat my enemy, I have to worry that they might defeat me. This means I’m not in full control; my enemy controls me as much as I control them.  

This is the second kind of interaction and it leads to a second extreme. To beat your enemy, you have to match your effort against their full power to resist. This power depends on two things that can’t be separated: the total resources they have and how strong their will is to keep fighting. How many resources they have can be counted, but how strong their will is can only be guessed by how strong their reasons for fighting are.  

If you can guess how strong the enemy’s resistance is, you can change your own effort to match it. You can try to be stronger than them or, if that’s impossible, make your effort as strong as you can. But the enemy will do the same thing. This competition will again push both sides to extremes.  

This is the third kind of interaction and the third extreme. So, when thinking deeply about war, you can’t stop until you reach the extreme point, because war is a clash of two forces that act freely and follow only their own rules.
