I now propose to inquire how its nature influences its purpose and its means.
 
 If for a start we inquire into the objective of any particular war, which must guide military action if the political purpose is to be properly served, we find that the object of any wsr can vary just as much as its political purpose and its actual circumstances.
 
 If for the moment we consider the pure concept of war, we should have to say that the political purpose of war had no connection with war itself; for if war is an act of violence meant to force the enemy to do our will its aim would have always and solely to be to overcome the enemy and disarm him. That aim is derived from the theoretical concept of war; but since many wars do actually come very close to fulfilling it, let us examine this kind of war first of all.
 
 Later, when we are dealing with the subject of war plans, we shall investigate in greater detail what is meant by disarming a country. But we should at once distinguish between three things, three broad objectives, which between them cover everything: the armed forces, the country, and the enemy's will.
 
 The fighting forces m6st be destroyed: that is, they must be put in such a condition that they can no longer carry on the fight. Whenever we use the phrase "destruction of the enemy's forces" this alone is what we mean.
 
 The country must be occupied; otherwise the enemy could raise fresh military forces.
 
 .d Yet both these things may be done and the war, that is the animosity e vre and the reciprocal effects of hostile elements, cannot be considered to have se r sth ended so long as the enemy's will has not been broken: in other words, so g long as the enemy government and its allies have not been driven to ask ir llA for peace, or the population made to submit.
 
 .}re We may occupy a country completely, but hostilities can be renewed h silb again in the interior, or perhaps with allied help. This of course can also u P {$ happen after the peace treaty, but this only shows that not every war neces.}e sarily leads to a final decision and settlement. But even if hostilities should ta D {$ occur again, a peace treaty will always extinguish a mass of sparks that might © th have gone on quietly smoldering. Further, tensions are slackened, for lovers g iryp of peace (and they abound among every people under all circumstances) o will then abandon any thought of further action. Be that as it may, we must C CHAPTER TWO always consider that with the conclusion of peace the purpose of the war has been achieved and its business is at an end.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
