But from that moment on, logic would seem to call for action by the other side-the object being to deny the enemy the time he needs for getting ready. Throughout all this I have assumed, of course, that both sides understand the situation perfectly.
 
 If this continuity were really to exist in the campaign its effect would again be to drive everything to extremes. Not only would such ceaseless activity arouse men's feelings and inject them with more passion and elemental strength, but events would follow more closely on each other and be governed by a stricter causal chain. Each individual action would be more important, and consequently more dangerous.
 
 But war, of course, seldom if ever shows such continuity. In numerous conflicts only a very small part of the time is occupied by action, while the rest is spent in inactivity. This cannot always be an anomaly. Suspension of action in war must be possible; in other words, it is not a contradiction in terms. Let me demonstrate this point, and explain the reasons for it.
 
 By thinking that the interests of the two commanders are opposed in equal measure to each other, we have assumed a genuine polarity. A whole chapter will be devoted to the subject further on, but the following must be said about it here.
 
 The principle of polarity is valid only in relation to one and the same object, in which positive and negative interests exactly cancel one another out. In a battle each side aims at victory; that is a case of true polarity, since the victory of one side excludes the victory of the other. When, however, .d we are dealing with two different things that have a common relation extere vre nal to themselves, the polaritv lies not in the things but in their relationship.
 
 se r sth g ir llA .}re h silb u P {$ If war assumed only a single form, namely, attacking the enemy, and defense .}e were nonexistent; or, to put it in another way, if the only differences between ta D {$ attack and defense lay in the fact that attack has a positive aim whereas © th defense has not, and the forms of fighting were identical; then every advang iryp tage gained by one side would be a precisely equal disadvantage to the o C other-true polarity would exist.
 
 83 ROOK ONE But there are two distinct forms of action in war: attack and defense.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
