Bearing in mind the elaborate structure of an army, and the numerous factors that determine its emplo!rn~ent, one can see that the fighting activity of such a force is also subject to complex organization, division of functions, and combinations. The separate units obviously must often be assigned tasks that are not in themselves concerned with the destruction of the enemy's forces, which may indeed increase their losses but do so only indirectly. If a battalion is ordered to drive the enemy from a hill, a bridge, etc., the true purpose is normally to occupy that point. Destruction of the enemy's force is only a means to an end, a secondary matter. If a mere demonstration is enough to cause the enemy to abandon his position, the objective has been achieved; but as a rule the hill or bridge is captured only so that even more damage can be inflicted on the enemy. If this is the case on the battlefield, it will be even more so in the theater of operations, where it is not merely two armies that are facing each other, but two states, two peoples, two nations. The range of possible circumstances, and therefore of options, is greatly increased, as is the variety of dispositions; and the gradation of objects at various levels of command will further separate the first means from the ultimate purpose.
 
 Thus there are many reasons why the purpose of an engagement may not be the destruction of the enemy's forces, the forces immediately confronting us. Destruction may be merely a means to some other end. In such a case, total destruction has ceased to be the point; the engagement is nothing but a trial of strength. In itself it is of no value; its significance lies in the outcome of the trial.
 
 When one force is a great deal stronger than the other, an estimate may be enough. There will be no fighting: the weaker side will yield at once.
 
 The fact that engagements do not always aim at the destruction of the opposing forces, that their objectives can often be attained without any fighting at all but merely by an evaluation of the situation, explains why entire campaigns can be conducted with great energy even though actual fighting plays an unimportant part in them.
 
 .d This is demonstrated by hundreds of examples in the history of war. Here e vre we are only concerned to show that it is possible; we need not ask how often se r sth g a it v o w id a s th ap e p t r e o s p t ri o a f t e b , at i t n l e o , t o h r e r w w he o t r h d e s r c a o l n l s t i h s e te n re t p w u i t t a h ti o t n h s e m ov a e d r e a ll i n p u su rp c o h s e c , a m to ir llA paigns would stand the test of critical examination.
 
 .}re There is only one means in war: combat. But the multiplicity of forms h silb that combat assumes leads us in as many different directions as are created u P {$ by the multiplicity of aims, so that our analysis does not seem to have made .}e any progress. But that is not so: the fact that only one means exists constita D tutes a strand that runs through the entire web of military activity and really {$ © holds it together.
 
 th g We have shown that the destruction of the enemy's forces is one of the iryp o many objects that can be pursued in war, and we have left aside the quesC CHAPTER TWO tion of its importance relative to other purposes.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
