In any given case the answer will depend on circumstances; its importance to war in general remains to be clarified. We shall now go into this question, and we shall see what value must necessarily be attributed to this object of destruction.
 
 Combat is the only effective force in war; its aim is to destroy the enemy's forces as a means to a further end. That holds good even if no actual fighting occurs, because the outcome rests on the assumption that if it came to fighting, the enemy would be destroyed. It follows that the destruction of the enemy's force underlies all military actions; all plans are ultimately based on it, resting on it like an arch on its abutment. Consequently, all action is undertaken in the belief that if the ultimate test of arms should actually occur, the outcome would be favorable. The decision by arms is for all major and minor operations in war what cash payment is in commerce. Regardless how complex the relationship between the two parties, regardless how rarely settlements actually occur, thev can never be entirely absent.
 
 If a decision by-fighting is the basis of all plans and operations, it follows that the enemy can frustrate everything through a successful battle. This occurs not only when the encounter affects an essential factor in our plans, but when any victory that is won is of sufficient scope. For every important victory-that is, destruction of opposing forces-reacts on all other possibilities. Like liquid, they will settle at a new level.
 
 Thus it is evihent that destruction of the enemy forces is always the superior, more effective means, with which others cannot compete.
 
 But of course, we can only say destruction of the enemy is more effective if we can assume that all other conditions are equal. It would be a great mistake to deduce from this argument that a headlong rush must always triumph over skillful caution. ~ C n dag gressiveness would destroy the attack itself,-not the defense, and this is not-what we are talking about. Greater effectiveness relates not to the means but to the end; we are simply comparing the effect of different outcomes.
 
 When we speak of destroying the enemy's forces we must emphasize that nothing obliges us to limit this idea to physical forces: the moral element must also be considered. The two interact throughout: they are inseparable.
 
 .d We have just mentioned the effect that a great destructive act-a major e vre victory-inevitably exerts on all other actions, and it is exactly at such times se r sth g f th or a e t t s h p e re m ad o s r a m l o fa s c t to e r a s i i s l , y s o to t o a f s f p e e c a t k e , v t e h r e y t m h o in s g t f e lu ls i e d .
 
 e T le h m e e a n d t v o a f n a ta ll g , e a n t d h a t t h e t r h e e ir llA destruction of the enemy possesses over all other means is balanced by its .}re cost and danger; and it is only in order to avoid these risks that other policies h silb are employed.
 
 u P That the method of destruction cannot fail to be expensive is under{$ .}e standable; other things being equal, the more intent we are on destroying ta D theenemy's forces, the greater our own efforts must be.
 
 {$ © The danger of this method is that the greater the success we seek, the th g greater will be the damage if we fail.
 
 iryp o Other methods, therefore, are less costly if they succeed and less damagC BOOK ONE ing if they fail, though this holds true only if both sides act identically, if the enemy pursues the same course as we do.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
