The question reaches deep into the heart of the matter.
 
 Every action needs a certain time to be completed. That period is called its duration, and its length will depend on the speed with which the person acting works. We need not concern ourselves with the difference here.
 
 Everyone performs a task in his own way; a slow man, however, does not do it more slowly because he wants to spend more time over it, but because his nature causes him to need more time. If he made more haste he would do the job less well. His speed, then, is determined by subjective causes and is a factor in the actual duration of the task.
 
 Now if every action in war is allowed its appropriate duration, we would agree that, at least at first sight, any additional expenditure of time-any suspension of military action-seems absurd. In this connection it must be remembered that what we are talking about is not the progress made by one side or the other but the progress of military interaction as a whole.
 
 If two parties have prepared for war, some motive of hostility must have brought them to that point. Moreover so long as they remain under arms (do not negotiate a settlement) that motive of hostility must still be active.
 
 Only one consideration can restrain it: a desire to wait for a better moment before acting. At first sight one would think this desire could never operate on more than one side since its opposite must automatically be working on the other. If action would bring an advantage to one side, the other's interest must be to wait.
 
 But an absolute balance of forces cannot bring about a standstill, for if such a balance should exist the initiative would necessarily belong to the side with the positive purpose-the attacker.
 
 One could, however, conceive of a state of balance in which the side with the positive aim (the side with the stronger grounds for action) was the .d e one that had the weaker forces. The balance would then result from the vre combined effects of aim and strength. Were that the case, one would have se r sth to say that unless some shift in the balance were in prospect the two sides g ir llA s o h n o e u l s d id e m a c k o e u ld p e e a x ce p .
 
 e c I t f , to ho g w a e i v n e r b , y so itm a e al f t a e c r t a t w io h n i c w h e o re u g t h o t b t e o f s o t r i e m se u e la n t , e o t n h ly e .}re other into action. Inaction clearly cannot be explained by the concept of h silb balance. The only explanation is that both are waiting for a better time to u P {$ act. Let us suppose, therefore, that one of the two states has a positive aim.}e say, the conquest of a part of the other's territory, to use for bargaining at ta D {$ the peace table. Once the prize is in its hands, the political object has been © th achieved; there is no need to do more, and it can let matters rest. If the g iryp other state is ready to accept the situation, it should sue for peace. If not, o it must do something; and if it thinks it will be better organized for action C 82 CHAPTER ONE in four weeks' time it clearly has an adequate reason for not taking action at once.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
