There is onlv one: combat. However manv forms combat takes, however far it may be rimoved from the brute discharge of hatred and enmity of a physical encounter, however many forces may intrude which themselves are not part of fighting, it is inherent in the very concept of war that everything that occurs must originally derive from combat.
 
 It is easy to show that this is always so, however many forms reality takes.
 
 Everything that occurs in war results from the existence of armed forces; but whenever armed forces, that is armed individuals, are used, the idea of combat must be present.
 
 Warfare comprises everything related to the fighting forces-everything to do with their creation. maintenance. and use.
 
 Creation and maintenance are obviously only means; their use constitutes the end.
 
 Combat in war is not a contest between individuals. It is a whole made up of many parts, and in that whole two elements may be distinguished, one determined by the subject, the other by the objective. The mass of combatants in an army endlessly forms fresh elements, which themselves are parts of a greater structure. The fighting activity of each of these parts constitutes a more or less clearly defined element. Moreover, combat itself is made an element of war by its very purpose, by its objective.
 
 Each of these elements which become distinct in the course of fighting is named an engagement.
 
 If the idea of fighting underlies every use of the fighting forces, then their employment means simply the planning and organizing of a series of engagements.
 
 The whole of military activity must therefore relate directly or indirectly to the engagement. The end for which a soldier is recruited, clothed, armed, and trained, the whole object of his sleeping, eating, drinking, and marching is simply that he should fight at the right place and the right time.
 
 If all threads of military activity lead to the engagement, then if we con.d trol the engagement, we comprehend them all. Their results are produced e vre by our orders and by the execution of these orders, never directly by other se r sth g d co es n t d r i u t c io ti n o s n .
 
 o S f i n t c h e e i e n n e t m h y e , e o n r g r a a g th em er e n of t h e i v s e r a y r t m hi e n d g fo is r ce c s o , n w ce h n i t c r h a te is d in o h n e re th n e t ir llA in its very concept, it follows that the destruction of the enemy's forces is .}re always the means by which the purpose of the engagement is achieved.
 
 h silb The purpose in question may be the destruction of the enemy's forces, u P {$ but not necessarily so; it may be quite different. As we have shown, the .}e destruction of the enemy is not the only means of attaining the political ta D object, when there are other objectives for which the war is waged. It fol{$ © lows that those other objectives can also become the purpose of particular th g military operations, and thus also the purpose of engagements.
 
 iryp o Even when subordinate engagements are directly intended to destroy the C BOOK ONE opposing forces, that destruction still need not be their first, immediate concern.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
