So, the main goal of pure resistance is to outlast the enemy and wear them down.

This is where the big difference in war comes from: attack versus defense. We won’t go into all the details now, but basically, all the best ways to fight come from this idea of resisting. It also shows the relationship between how big the chance of winning is and how likely success is. We’ll talk more about this later.

If using every way to just resist gives an advantage in war, that advantage only needs to be strong enough to match any power the enemy has. In the end, the enemy will think their goal isn’t worth the effort and give up. This way of wearing down the enemy is mostly used when the weaker side tries to fight the stronger one.

For example, Frederick the Great couldn’t have beaten Austria in the Seven Years War by attacking like Charles XII did. Instead, he saved his strength for seven years and made the other side realize the fight would be harder than they thought. So, they agreed to peace.

Now we see that in war, there are many ways to win, and not all mean completely destroying the enemy. These ways include destroying their army, taking their land, temporarily occupying or invading, working toward a political goal, or just waiting for the enemy to attack. Any of these can break the enemy’s will, depending on the situation.

There’s one more kind of action that’s like a shortcut to winning: personal attacks or arguments. In human affairs, personal relationships always matter and affect decisions. The characters of leaders and soldiers are super important in war, so we shouldn’t ignore them. It’s enough to say this here without trying to sort everything out.

Thinking of these shortcuts as rare or unimportant would be a mistake. We just need to remember how many different political reasons can lead to war, or think about how different a total war for survival is from a war that’s forced by politics or old alliances that don’t really fit anymore. Between these two extremes, there are many other types of conflict.

If we reject all this, we lose the chance to understand war fully.

CHAPTER TWO  
Now that we’ve talked about what goals wars have, let’s look at how wars are actually fought.
