Out of the three goals mentioned, the fighting forces keep the country safe. So, the first step is usually to destroy those forces, and then take control of the country. After doing these two things and using our strong position, we can bring the enemy to the peace talks. Usually, destroying the enemy’s forces happens slowly, and taking over the country does too. One thing leads to the other: losing land makes the fighting forces weaker. But this doesn’t always happen in that order. Sometimes, the enemy’s forces leave to faraway places or even go to other countries before they get seriously hurt. If that happens, most or all of the country will be taken over.

The main goal of war is to disarm the enemy, which means making them unable to fight anymore. This is the ultimate way to reach the political goal of war and includes everything else. But in real life, this goal doesn’t always happen, and it doesn’t have to be fully done to make peace. We shouldn’t treat this idea like a strict rule. Many peace deals have been made before one side was completely powerless or before the balance of power changed a lot. Also, some wars happen where the enemy is actually much stronger, so defeating them isn’t really possible.

The reason why the goal of war in theory doesn’t always fit real wars is that there are two very different kinds of war, which we talked about earlier. If war was like theory says, it wouldn’t make sense for countries with very different strengths to fight. The difference in power couldn’t be bigger than what morale or spirit could make up for. But since wars have happened between very unequal countries, we see that real war is often very different from the pure idea in theory.

In real life, if a side can’t keep fighting, peace can happen for two other reasons: first, because winning seems unlikely, and second, because the cost of winning is too high.

As we saw before, war often moves away from strict rules and becomes more about chances and guesses. The more the reasons for war push it this way, the weaker the reasons and feelings for fighting become. This helps explain why sometimes just the chance of losing might make one side give up. If the other side knows this from the start, it will try to make that chance of defeat real instead of trying to totally destroy the enemy.

Even more important in deciding to make peace is thinking about all the effort already spent and all the effort still needed to continue fighting.
