Just like with our colleges, many "modern improvements" seem amazing but don’t always make things better for real. The problems from the start keep growing, like a devil charging interest on old debts and new ones. Our inventions often turn out to be fun gadgets that distract us from important stuff. They help us get to the same old goals faster, but those goals weren’t great to begin with—like how railroads just lead to big cities like Boston or New York.

We hurry to build a telegraph from Maine to Texas, but maybe Maine and Texas don’t have anything important to say to each other. It’s like a guy excited to meet a deaf woman but has nothing to talk about when they finally meet. It’s like we care more about talking fast than talking well. We rush to dig a tunnel under the Atlantic to bring the old world closer to the new, but maybe the first news we get is something silly, like a princess having whooping cough.

After all, the fastest horse doesn’t carry the most important messages. It’s not like a messenger spreading big ideas or eating wild honey in the wilderness. I doubt the fastest horse ever carried grain to the mill.

Someone once told me, “I wonder why you don’t save money; you like to travel. You could take the train to Fitchburg today and see the countryside.” But I know better. I learned the fastest traveler is the one who walks. I say to a friend, “Let’s see who gets there first.” It’s 30 miles, and the train costs 90 cents, almost a day’s pay. I remember when workers made only 60 cents a day on this road. So I start walking and get there before night; I’ve done that for weeks before. Meanwhile, my friend will have to work to earn the train fare and might get there tomorrow or late today if they find a job fast. Instead of traveling, they’ll be working most of the day. So even if the railroad went all the way around the world, I think I’d still get there first. And if I want to see the country and learn from it, I’d have to stop hanging out with you.

This is a rule no one can beat, and it applies to railroads too. Building a railroad around the world for everyone would be like leveling the whole planet’s surface.
