Ice has lines in it, kind of like wood grain. When ice starts to go bad or looks like honeycomb, no matter where it is, the air bubbles inside are at right angles to the water surface it once had. If there is a rock or log close to the ice surface, the ice above it is thinner and often melts faster because of heat bouncing off. I heard that in an experiment at Cambridge, they tried freezing water in a shallow wooden pond. Even though cold air was all around, the sun’s reflection from the bottom made the ice melt more than the cold air could freeze it. When warm rain falls in winter and melts the snow ice on Walden Pond, it leaves a hard, dark, or clear ice in the middle. But around the edges, there’s a thick strip of soft, rotten white ice caused by reflected heat. Also, the bubbles inside the ice act like tiny lenses, focusing light and melting the ice below them.

This stuff happens every day in a pond on a small scale. Usually, shallow water warms up faster than deep water during the day, but might not get as warm overall. At night, shallow water cools down faster until morning. The day in a pond is like a whole year. Night is winter, morning and evening are spring and fall, and noon is summer.

When ice cracks and makes booming sounds, it means the temperature is changing. One nice morning on February 24th, 1850, I went to Flint’s Pond and was surprised that when I hit the ice with my axe, it sounded like a loud gong that you could hear from far away, like hitting a drum. The pond started booming about an hour after sunrise when the sun’s rays hit it from over the hills. It stretched and yawned like a waking person, making more noise for three or four hours. It took a short break at noon, then boomed again toward night as the sun went down. When the weather is just right, a pond fires its “evening gun” very regularly. But at midday, when the ice has lots of cracks and the air is less stretchy, the sound disappears. Probably, fish and muskrats wouldn’t get stunned by hitting the ice then.
