No country that lives a simple life, especially one full of deep thinkers, would make the big mistake of using animals to do work for them. It’s true that there has never been, and probably won’t be soon, a country full of philosophers. I’m not even sure if that would be a good thing.

Still, I wouldn’t have trained a horse or bull to work for me because I’d be afraid of becoming just a horse rider or herdsman. Even if society benefits from using animals for work, are we sure that what one person gains isn’t someone else’s loss? Does the stableboy feel as happy as his boss? Sure, some public projects wouldn’t get done without animals, and maybe people should share credit with the ox and horse. But does that mean humans couldn’t have done even greater things without them?

When people start using animals to do not just extra or fancy work but lazy and unnecessary work, it ends up with a few people doing all the trade and work with animals, basically becoming slaves to the strongest. Humans end up working not just for their own animal nature, but also for the animals outside themselves. Even though we have strong houses made of brick or stone, how well a farmer is doing is still judged by how big his barn is compared to his house. This town is known for having the biggest barns for oxen, cows, and horses around, and it also has impressive public buildings. But there are very few places here for free worship or free speech. Countries shouldn’t be remembered just by their buildings, but by their ideas and thoughts. The Bhagvat-Geeta, a spiritual book, is way more impressive than all the old ruins in the East! Big towers and temples are just fancy things for rich rulers. A simple and independent mind doesn’t work for any king. Genius isn’t a servant to any emperor, and it doesn’t rely much on money or fancy materials. So why do people spend so much effort hammering stone? When I was in Arcadia, I didn’t see any stone being hammered. Nations are obsessed with leaving behind lots of carved stone to remember themselves. What if they put the same effort into improving their behavior and manners? One smart idea would be remembered more than a monument as tall as the moon. I’d rather see stones used to build something real.

The greatness of Thebes was flashy but shallow. A simple stone wall that marks an honest man’s field makes more sense than a huge city with a hundred gates that has lost sight of what life is really about. Barbaric religions and civilizations build fancy temples, but what you could call Christianity does not.
