Maybe the first people who came to this well left some marks behind. I was surprised to find a narrow path around the pond, even where trees were just cut down near the shore. The path goes up and down the steep hill, sometimes close to the water and sometimes further away. It’s probably as old as the first people who lived here, worn down by the feet of native hunters, and even today, people still walk on it without knowing. You can see this path best in winter, right after a light snowfall. It looks like a clear white line winding around the pond, easy to spot from far away, even though in summer it’s hard to see because of weeds and twigs. The snow shows the path perfectly, like white writing raised above the ground. One day, when fancy houses are built here, the gardens might still show some signs of this old path.

The pond’s water level goes up and down, but no one really knows exactly how or when. Many people say they know, but they don’t. Usually, it’s higher in winter and lower in summer, but not always matching the wet or dry seasons. I remember when the water was a couple of feet lower, and also when it was five feet higher than when I lived nearby. There’s a narrow strip of sand going into the pond with very deep water on one side. Around 1824, I helped boil some food on it, about 100 feet from the shore, but that hasn’t been possible for 25 years. Later, I told my friends I used to fish from a boat in a quiet cove in the woods, 225 feet from the only shore they knew, but that place has since turned into a meadow.

The pond has been rising steadily for two years, and now in summer 1852, the water is five feet higher than when I lived there, as high as it was 30 years ago. People are fishing again in the meadow. The total change in water level can be six or seven feet. But the water coming from nearby hills is very little, so this rise and fall must be because of changes in underground springs. This summer, the pond started going down again. It’s interesting that these changes take many years to happen. I’ve seen one rise and part of two falls, and I think in 10 to 15 years the water will be as low as I’ve ever seen it. Flint’s Pond, about a mile east, and some smaller ponds nearby, also change their water levels in the same way and recently reached their highest level at the same time as this pond.
