Brute Neighbors Sometimes I had a friend who came to my house from the other side of town to fish with me, and catching dinner was as much about hanging out as eating it.

Hermit. I wonder what’s happening in the world right now. I haven’t even heard a grasshopper near the sweet-fern for three hours. The pigeons are all asleep on their branches—no movement from them. Was that a farmer’s horn I just heard from beyond the woods? The workers are coming in to eat boiled salt beef, cider, and Indian bread. Why do people stress so much? If you don’t need to eat, you don’t need to work. I wonder how much they harvested. Who would want to live where they can’t even think because of Bose barking? And oh, the cleaning! Polishing the devil’s door-knobs and scrubbing his tubs on such a sunny day! It’s better not to have a house. Maybe live in a hollow tree; then no morning visits or dinner parties! Just a woodpecker tapping. Oh, they’re everywhere; the sun is too hot there; they’re too far into life for me. I have spring water and a loaf of brown bread on the shelf.—Wait! I hear leaves rustling. Is it a hungry village dog chasing something? Or the lost pig that’s supposed to be in these woods, whose tracks I saw after the rain? It’s coming closer; my sumac and sweet-brier plants are shaking.—Hey, Mr. Poet, is that you? How do you like the world today?

Poet. Look at those clouds; how they hang! That’s the coolest thing I’ve seen today. Nothing like it in old paintings or other countries—except once when we were off the coast of Spain. That’s a real Mediterranean sky. I thought, since I need to make a living and haven’t eaten today, maybe I should go fishing. That’s the best job for poets. It’s the only work I know. Come on, let’s go.

Hermit. I can’t say no. My brown bread will be gone soon. I’ll go with you happily soon, but I’m just finishing a deep thought. I think I’m almost done. Leave me alone for a bit. But so we won’t waste time, you can start digging for bait meanwhile.
