I had all my winters and most of my summers free to study. I tried being a teacher, but I found that I spent more money than I earned because I had to dress, train, and act a certain way. I also wasted a lot of time. Since I didn’t teach because I loved it but just to make money, it didn’t work out. I also tried working in business, but I realized it would take ten years to get started, and by then I might be in a bad situation. I was even scared that by then I might be doing what people call a “good business.”

When I was looking for a way to make a living, I thought about picking huckleberries. I thought it would be easy, didn’t need much money, and wouldn’t mess up my mood. I was wrong, but I liked that it didn’t require much.

While my friends went straight into business or professional jobs, I thought picking berries was similar. I imagined spending the summer in the hills picking berries and then selling them easily, like taking care of animals. I also dreamed about collecting wild herbs or carrying evergreens to people in towns and cities who liked nature. But I later learned that business ruins everything it touches, and even if it’s selling something amazing, the problems of business still come with it.

I liked some things more than others, especially freedom. I could live simply and still do well, so I didn’t want to waste time earning fancy carpets, nice furniture, fancy food, or a fancy house just yet. If some people don’t mind working hard to get those things and know how to enjoy them, that’s fine. Some people love working hard just for the sake of it or because it keeps them busy. I don’t have much to say to them now. For people who don’t know what to do with more free time, I’d tell them to work twice as hard as they do now until they earn their freedom.

For me, working as a day laborer was the most independent job. It only took about thirty or forty days of work a year to support myself. The laborer’s day ends when the sun goes down, and then he’s free to do what he wants. But his boss, who worries about money all year, never gets a break.
