It’s like catching a little bit of star dust, a small piece of the rainbow that I’ve held onto.

I’ve never been too picky about food. Sometimes, if I had to, I could even enjoy eating a fried rat. I’m happy I’ve drunk water for so long because I like the natural sky more than a dream made by drugs. I want to stay clear-headed all the time, and there are many levels of being drunk. I think water is the best drink for a smart person; wine isn’t as good. And imagine ruining your morning with warm coffee or your evening with tea! When I’m tempted by those, I feel like I’m falling low. Even music can make you feel drunk. Small things like that destroyed Greece and Rome, and they could ruin England and America too. Of all the ways to feel drunk, who wouldn’t want to be drunk on fresh air?

Doing hard, rough work for a long time is tough because it makes me eat and drink in a rough way too. But honestly, I’m not as picky about food and drink now. I don’t pray before meals anymore, not because I’m wiser, but because I’ve become less careful and caring as I’ve gotten older. Maybe only young people care about these things, like some think about poetry.

I don’t follow one strict practice about this, but I have my own opinion. I don’t think I’m one of those lucky people the Ved talks about—those who believe in a Supreme Being and can eat anything without worrying about what it is or who made it. Even they are only allowed this during hard times, according to a Hindu teacher.

Who hasn’t felt a deep happiness from food when they weren’t even hungry? I’ve felt inspired by taste before, like some berries I ate on a hill gave me creative energy. A wise man once said, “When the soul isn’t in control, you look but don’t see, listen but don’t hear, eat but don’t taste.” If you really taste your food, you can’t be a glutton; if you don’t, you probably are. Even a strict person can eat plain bread with as much hunger as a rich person eating fancy food. It’s not the food that makes a person bad, but the way they eat it.
