Make sure you help poor people with what they really need, even if you don’t set a perfect example for them. If you give money, use it wisely and don’t just throw it at them and forget about it. Sometimes we make strange mistakes. Often, poor people are not just cold or hungry, but dirty and wearing old, torn clothes. This is partly because of their choices, not just bad luck. If you give them money, they might spend it on more old clothes.

I used to feel sorry for the clumsy Irish workers cutting ice on the pond in their ragged clothes, while I was cold but dressed better. One very cold day, a man who fell into the water came to my house to warm up. I saw him take off three pairs of pants and two pairs of socks before he was just in his skin, even though his clothes were dirty and torn. He had so many layers that he didn’t need the extra clothes I offered him. That cold dunk in the water was what he really needed. Then I started to feel sorry for myself and realized it would help me more to have a warm flannel shirt than to give him a whole pile of clothes.

Many people try to fix problems by dealing with small parts, but very few try to fix the root cause. Sometimes, the person who spends the most time and money helping poor people is actually doing things that keep the problem going. It’s like a slave owner who uses money from slaves to buy them a day off each week. Some people say they are kind to the poor by giving them jobs in their kitchens, but wouldn’t it be kinder if they worked there themselves? You might brag about giving a tenth of your money to charity, but maybe you should use the rest to help too. Society only gets back a small part of what it needs because of people’s selfishness or because the system is unfair.

Helping others is one of the few good things most people really respect. Actually, people think it’s more important than it really is, mostly because they want to feel good about themselves. One strong poor man once told me he was thankful to a man in town because he was kind to poor people—meaning him. People like the generous uncles and aunts who help out are praised more than those who really bring deep, lasting change.
