I think we can trust life and ourselves more than we usually do. We can relax a little in taking care of ourselves if we are careful in other parts of life.

Nature is made to handle both our weaknesses and our strengths. Some people worry too much and stress themselves out, and that can be like a sickness that’s hard to fix. We tend to think our work is more important than it really is. Still, a lot gets done even if we don’t do it all. What if we got sick? We are very careful and watchful.

We try hard not to just live by faith or hope. We stay alert all day and at night, we say our prayers even if we don’t want to, trusting things we can’t be sure about. We live seriously, respecting our lives and not believing things can change. We think this is the only way to live, but actually, there are many ways, like lines going out from one point. Change is amazing to think about, and it happens all the time. Confucius said that real knowledge is knowing what we know and what we don’t know. When one person understands something well, eventually everyone will live by that truth.

Let’s think about what most of our worries are about and how much we really need to be worried or careful. It might help to live like people did long ago, even if we live in a modern world, just to see what basics of life really matter and how people got them. Even looking at old store records shows what people bought most often — the most basic stuff. Even after many years of progress, the most important rules for living haven’t changed much, just like our skeletons probably haven’t changed much from our ancestors.

When I say “necessary of life,” I mean whatever things people get and use that are so important no one tries to live without them for long, whether because of wildness, poverty, or ideas. For many animals, there is only one necessary thing: food. For a bison on the prairie, it’s just some good grass to eat and water to drink, and maybe shelter like the forest or mountains. Animals only need food and shelter to live.
