I can’t help but notice that this so-called rich and fancy life is something people rush into, and I don’t really enjoy the arts that come with it because I’m too focused on rushing. I remember that the biggest real jump a human has ever made is by some wandering Arabs who supposedly jumped 25 feet on flat ground. Without any help, humans can’t jump farther than that. The first question I want to ask the owner of this strange life is, “Who is helping you?” Are you one of the 97 people who fail or one of the 3 who succeed? Answer me, and then maybe I’ll think your fancy things look nice. Putting the cart before the horse isn’t beautiful or useful. Before we can decorate our houses with nice things, we need to clear out the walls and our lives and build a good foundation for living well. Now, people learn to appreciate beauty mostly outside, where there’s no house or housekeeper.  

Old Johnson, in his book “Wonder-Working Providence,” talked about the first settlers of this town, who lived at the same time as him. He said they dug holes in the ground under hills for shelter and made smoky fires against the earth on the highest side. They didn’t build houses until the land produced enough food to feed them. The first year’s crop was so small that they had to eat very thin slices of bread for a long time.  

The secretary of New Netherland wrote in Dutch in 1650, explaining to people who wanted to move there that those without money to build nice farmhouses first dug square holes in the ground, about six or seven feet deep. They made the walls with wood and lined them with tree bark or something else to stop dirt from falling in. They put wood floors and ceilings, built a roof with branches, and covered it with bark or grass so families could stay dry and warm for two to four years. The rooms inside the cellar were divided to fit the family size. The rich men in New England started their first houses this way for two reasons: so they wouldn’t waste time building and risk missing a good harvest, and so they wouldn’t discourage poor workers they brought from Europe.
