My house was on the side of a hill, right next to a big forest. Around me were young pine and hickory trees, and only a short walk from a pond down a small path. In my front yard, lots of plants grew like strawberries, blackberries, and different flowers like goldenrod and johnswort. There were also bushes like shrub-oaks, sand-cherry, blueberry, and groundnut.

At the end of May, the sand-cherry plants decorated the path with small flowers on their stems. In the fall, these plants had big, nice cherries that hung down like little wreaths. I tried eating them to be polite to nature, but they didn’t taste very good. The sumach bushes grew a lot around my house, pushing up through the dirt I had piled. They grew five or six feet tall in the first year. Their big leaves looked tropical and kind of strange. The buds on the dry sticks suddenly grew into soft green branches in spring. Sometimes, when I was sitting by my window, I heard a branch fall to the ground even though there was no wind. It had broken because it was too heavy. In August, the bright red berries grew on the bushes. They attracted many wild bees when they were flowers. The berries got so heavy they bent the branches down and broke some of them.

One summer afternoon, as I sat by my window, I saw hawks flying around the open space near my house. Wild pigeons flew by in twos and threes or sat nervously on the pine trees behind my house, making noise in the air. A fishhawk dived into the pond and caught a fish. A mink came out of the marsh near my door and caught a frog by the water. The tall grass bent under the weight of reed-birds flying here and there. For the last half hour, I heard the sound of railroad cars coming and going, like a partridge’s beat, carrying travelers from Boston to the countryside. I didn’t live as far away from everything as a boy I heard about, who was sent to live with a farmer in the east part of town. He ran away soon after and came back home, worn out and missing home. He said the place was so boring and quiet, and everyone was gone. He even said you couldn’t hear the train whistle!
