His manners were really fancy and royal. I should have done better if I had visited him.

How long will we sit around, acting all proud about boring old virtues that any real work would make seem useless? It’s like starting the day being patient while paying someone else to do your work, then pretending to be kind and good in the afternoon just because you planned to. Think about how proud and stuck-up people can be. This generation likes to brag about being the last in a famous family line. In cities like Boston, London, Paris, and Rome, people talk proudly about their progress in art, science, and books. They have fancy records and speeches about great people! It’s like Adam admiring his own goodness. “Yes, we did amazing things and wrote beautiful songs that will never be forgotten,” but only as long as we remember them. What happened to the smart groups and great men of old civilizations like Assyria?

We are young thinkers and experimenters! None of you have lived a full human life yet. Maybe these are just the early months in the life of humanity. If we have had some small struggles, we haven’t seen the big challenges yet. We only know a tiny bit about the world we live on. Most people haven’t even explored a little below or above the surface. We don’t really know where we are. Plus, we spend almost half our time asleep.

Still, we think we’re wise and have things figured out on the surface.

We really think deeply and dream big! When I watch a little bug crawling in the forest, trying to hide from me, I wonder why it keeps such simple thoughts and hides from me, who might help it and its kind with some useful info. Then I remember there is a bigger helper and smarter being watching over me, the human bug.

New things keep coming into the world, but we still accept boringness. I only need to mention the kind of sermons people still listen to in the most advanced countries. Words like joy and sorrow are just parts of a dull song, sung in a annoying voice, while we believe in ordinary and small things. We think changing our clothes is all we can really do. People say the British Empire is huge and important, and the United States is a top power. But we don’t realize that there’s a powerful force behind every person that could easily lift the British Empire like a small piece of wood if they ever believed in it.
