People kind of think that if they keep working hard with their tools and efforts, eventually everything will work out quickly and for free. But even if a lot of people rush to the train station and the conductor yells “All aboard!”, when the smoke clears, only a few will actually get to ride, and the rest will get hurt or crushed. This will be called, and really is, “A sad accident.” 

Sure, some might get to ride if they earn their ticket, but they might lose their energy and interest in traveling by then. Spending most of your life making money just to enjoy some freedom when you’re older doesn’t seem smart to me. It reminds me of the English guy who went to India to get rich first so he could come back and live like a poet. He should have started living his dream right away.

“What!” say a million Irish people from their small homes, “Isn’t this railroad we built a good thing?” Yes, it’s okay compared to other stuff, but as your brother, I wish you’d spent your time doing better than digging in the dirt.

Before I finished building my house, I wanted to make ten or twelve dollars in a good, honest way to cover extra costs. So I planted about two and a half acres of light, sandy soil near it, mostly with beans, but also some potatoes, corn, peas, and turnips. The whole area is eleven acres, mostly covered with pine and hickory trees, and it was sold last year for eight dollars and eight cents per acre.

One farmer said the land was “good for nothing but to raise noisy squirrels.” I didn’t put any manure on it since I didn’t own the land, just lived there, and I didn’t expect to farm this much again. I didn’t even hoe all of it once. When plowing, I pulled out several piles of tree stumps, which gave me firewood for a long time. There were small patches of untouched soil, easy to spot in summer because the beans grew better there. The dead wood behind my house and driftwood from the pond gave me the rest of my firewood. 

I had to hire a team and a man to help plow, but I held the plow myself. My farm costs for the first season—tools, seeds, work, and stuff—were $14.72½. The seed corn was given to me, which usually doesn’t cost much unless you plant way too much.
