We know very few real people, but we see lots of clothes. If you dressed a scarecrow in your old clothes while you just stood there doing nothing, who wouldn’t salute the scarecrow first? The other day, I passed a cornfield and saw a hat and coat on a stick. I knew it belonged to the farmer nearby. He looked about the same as when I last saw him, just a bit more worn out. I heard about a dog that barked at anyone wearing clothes near its home but stayed quiet when a naked thief came by. It makes you wonder how much people would still be respected if they didn’t have clothes on.

Could you tell which group of people was the most respected if no one wore clothes? Madam Pfeiffer traveled all over the world, and when she got close to home in Asiatic Russia, she said she had to wear nicer clothes to meet important people because that’s how they judged others there. Even in our New England towns, people who have money and show it through their clothes get almost everyone’s respect. But this kind of respect is a bit shallow and needs to change. Also, clothes brought sewing, which never really ends—especially for women’s dresses.

A man who finally finds a job doesn’t need a new suit to work in; his old dusty clothes will do fine. Old shoes can last a hero longer than they last a servant—if heroes even have servants! Bare feet are even older than shoes, and a hero can manage with them. Only people going to fancy parties or government meetings need brand new coats, changing clothes as often as they change themselves. But if my jacket, pants, hat, and shoes are good enough to go to church, they should be good enough for anything, right? Who has ever seen old clothes worn out so badly that it’s not kind to give them to a poor kid? That kid might give them to someone even poorer or maybe richer who needs them less. I say, watch out for any plan that needs new clothes instead of a new person. If there’s no new person, how can new clothes fit? If you have a challenge ahead, try it in your old clothes. Everyone wants not just something to do with, but something to really do or be. Maybe we should never get a new suit, no matter how worn or dirty the old one is, until we’ve done something so great that we feel like new people in the old clothes—and keeping the old clothes would be like putting new wine in old bottles.
