Some people think that Yankees don’t have much fun because they don’t have as many holidays and don’t play as many games as kids in England. But that’s not true. Here, kids spend their time doing more old-fashioned and quiet activities like hunting and fishing. Almost every boy in New England I knew carried a gun for hunting between the ages of ten and fourteen. And unlike in England, where hunting areas are small and private, these boys could hunt and fish in huge, open spaces, even bigger than what wild people have.

So, it’s not surprising that these boys didn’t spend much time playing in public parks. But things are starting to change, not because people are kinder, but because there are fewer animals to hunt. In fact, hunters might be the best friends of the animals they hunt, even more than animal protection groups.

When I was by the pond, I sometimes fished to add some variety to my food. I fished because I needed to, just like the first fishermen did long ago. Any kindness I felt about fishing was more about what I thought than what I actually felt. I’m only talking about fishing now, because I felt differently about hunting birds and even sold my gun before going into the woods. It’s not that I’m less kind than others, but I didn’t really feel sorry for the fish or worms. It was just a habit.

When I was still hunting birds, I told myself I was studying birds and only wanted to find rare ones. But now I think there’s a better way to study birds, one that doesn’t need a gun. It takes paying much more attention to what the birds do, and for that reason, I decided to stop hunting. Still, even though I have some doubts about hunting because of kindness, I don’t think there are other sports that can replace it. When friends asked me if their boys should be allowed to hunt, I said yes. I remember hunting was one of the best parts of my education. I told them to make their boys hunters, starting as sportsmen but becoming great hunters, so that no game would be too big for them in any wild place — hunters and also “fishers of men.” I agree with Chaucer’s nun who said hunters can be good people. There is a time in every person’s life, and in human history, when hunters are the best people, just like the Algonquins said.
