In my house, we were so close together that we couldn’t even hear each other—we couldn’t even speak quietly enough to be heard. It’s like when you throw two stones into calm water really close, and their waves cancel each other out. If we just talked loudly and a lot, then we could stand really close, cheek to cheek, and feel each other’s breath. But if we spoke carefully and quietly, we needed to be farther apart so that all the heat and moisture between us could disappear.

If we wanted to enjoy being really close with the part of us that doesn’t need words, we had to be silent and usually so far apart that we couldn’t hear each other at all. Compared to this, talking is just for people who can’t hear well. But there are many important things we can’t say if we have to shout. As our talks got deeper and more serious, we slowly moved our chairs farther apart until they touched opposite walls, and even then, there wasn’t always enough space.

My favorite room, the one I used when guests came, was the pine wood behind my house. In the summer, when special guests visited, I took them there. A hardworking family member kept the floor clean and the furniture dusted.

If one guest came, they sometimes ate my simple meal, and it didn’t stop us from talking if I was stirring a pudding or watching bread rise in the ashes. But if twenty guests came, we didn’t talk about dinner, even if there was enough bread for two people—more than if eating was something we forgot about. We naturally didn’t eat much, and this wasn’t seen as rude but as the right and thoughtful thing to do. The wearing out of our bodies, which usually needs fixing, seemed to slow down, and our energy stayed strong. I could host a thousand guests just as easily as twenty, and if anyone ever left my house hungry when I was home, they could be sure I felt bad for them.

It’s easy, even if many hosts don’t believe it, to create new and better habits instead of old ones. You don’t have to prove yourself by the meals you serve. For me, I was never more put off from visiting someone’s house than when they made a big deal about feeding me—it felt like a polite way of saying not to bother them again.
