He came early, walking through my bean field, but he wasn’t in a rush or worried like Yankees usually are. He wasn’t trying to work too hard or hurry. He didn’t mind if he only earned enough to pay for his food and place to stay. Often, he would leave his dinner in the bushes because his dog had caught a woodchuck nearby. Then he would walk a mile and a half back to the house where he stayed to prepare the meat and put it in the cellar. Before doing that, he would think for about half an hour if he could safely keep it in the pond until night. He liked to think about these things for a long time. When he passed by in the morning, he would say, “Look how many pigeons there are! If I didn’t have to work every day, I could get all the meat I want by hunting—pigeons, woodchucks, rabbits, partridges—wow! I could get enough for a whole week in just one day.” He was good at chopping trees and even added some style to his work. He cut trees close to the ground so new shoots could grow stronger and so a sled could slide over the stumps. Instead of leaving a whole tree to hold his stacked wood, he would shave it down to a thin stick you could break with your hand.

He interested me because he was so quiet and alone but still very happy; his good mood showed in his eyes. He laughed with pure joy. Sometimes I saw him working in the woods, cutting trees, and he would greet me with a happy laugh and a hello in Canadian French, even though he also spoke English. When I got close, he would stop working, lie down on a fallen pine tree, peel off the inner bark, roll it into a ball, and chew it while laughing and talking. He had so much energy that sometimes he would fall and roll on the ground laughing at anything that made him feel funny. Looking around at the trees, he would say, “By George! I can have a good time just chopping here; I don’t need any other fun.” When he wasn’t busy, he would spend the whole day in the woods with a small pistol, shooting it at regular times as he walked. In winter, he made a fire to warm his coffee at noon, and as he sat on a log to eat, little birds called chickadees would land on his arm and peck at the potato in his hand. He said he “liked having the little fellows around.” In him, the wild, animal side of man was the strongest.
