Right now, he also lives in a very small house. Cato’s old cellar hole is still there, but not many people know about it because pine trees hide it from travelers. Now, smooth sumach plants grow there, and one of the first kinds of golden-rod flowers grows there a lot.

Near the corner of my field, closer to town, Zilpha, a Black woman, had a small house. She spun linen for people in town and sang loudly, making the Walden Woods echo with her sharp voice. During the War of 1812, English soldiers who were prisoners set her house on fire when she was away. Her cat, dog, and chickens all died in the fire. She lived a hard life and wasn’t always kind. An old person who often visited the woods remembers hearing her mumble to herself one day, saying, “Ye are all bones, bones!” I have seen bricks in the oak trees near her old home.

Down the road on the right, on Brister’s Hill, lived Brister Freeman. He was a slave of Squire Cummings and was known as a handy man. The apple trees he planted there still grow. They are big old trees now, but their apples taste wild and sour to me. Recently, I read his tombstone in the old Lincoln graveyard near the unmarked graves of British soldiers from the retreat at Concord. His name was written as “Sippio Brister,” like Scipio Africanus, a famous black general. The stone called him “a man of color,” as if that was a bad thing. It also said when he died, which was the only way I knew he ever lived. His wife Fenda lived with him. She was friendly and told fortunes in a nice way. She was very dark-skinned, darker than anyone else in Concord before or since.

Further down the hill, on the left, along the old road in the woods, you can find signs of the Stratton family’s old home. They used to have an orchard that covered Brister’s Hill, but it died because of pitch pine trees, except for a few stumps. Those old roots still help grow many healthy village trees.

Closer to town, on the other side of the road at Breed’s place, is famous for the tricks of a demon from old stories. This demon isn’t named clearly in myths, but he plays a big and shocking role in New England’s history. He first shows up as a friend or helper but then steals and kills the whole family. This demon is New-England Rum.
