One night at the start of winter, before the pond froze, around nine o’clock, I was surprised by the loud honking of a goose. When I went to the door, I heard their wings making a huge noise like a storm in the woods as they flew low over my house. They flew over the pond toward Fair Haven but didn’t seem to want to land because of my light. Their leader kept honking in a steady rhythm.

Suddenly, a loud cat-owl nearby answered the goose with a harsh and powerful voice, the strongest I’d ever heard from any animal in the woods. It sounded like the owl wanted to show off and scare away this visitor from far away by making louder and more impressive noises. It was like the owl was saying, “Why are you disturbing my home at this late hour? Do you think I’m asleep? I can shout just as loud as you!” Boo-hoo, boo-hoo, boo-hoo!

It was one of the most exciting but messy sounds I ever heard. Still, if you listened carefully, you could hear some parts that almost fit together, something the plains never heard before.

I also heard the ice on the pond making whooping sounds, like it was restless in its spot and wanted to move or had strange dreams. Or sometimes I woke up from the frost cracking the ground, which sounded like someone had driven a heavy cart against my door. In the morning, there might be a long, thin crack in the earth nearby.

Sometimes I heard foxes moving over the snow on moonlit nights, looking for birds or other animals to catch. They barked in a rough and wild way, almost like dogs in the forest. It seemed like they were trying hard to be like dogs and run free in the streets. Maybe animals are becoming more like people over time? They seemed like early humans still protecting themselves, waiting to change. One even came close to my window, barked a fox’s curse at me because of the light, then ran away.

Usually, a red squirrel woke me up at dawn, running over the roof and climbing the house like it was sent from the woods to do that. During the winter, I put out half a bushel of sweet-corn ears that weren’t ripe yet, on the snow by my door. It was fun to watch the different animals come to eat it.
