He cut a channel in the ice toward the shore and pulled a log over the ice using oxen. But before he got far, he realized the log was upside down, with the branch stumps pointing down and the small end stuck in the sandy bottom. The big end was about a foot wide, and he thought it would be good for sawing, but it was so rotten it could only be used for firewood, if that. He still had some of it in his shed. The log had axe marks and holes made by woodpeckers near the base.

He thought it might have been a dead tree on the shore that got blown into the pond. The top got soaked with water, but the base stayed dry and light, so it floated out and sank upside down.

His dad, who is eighty, can’t remember a time when the log wasn’t there.

There are still some big logs lying on the bottom. Because of the waves, they look like giant water snakes moving.

This pond hardly ever has boats because there’s not much to catch for fishermen. Instead of white lilies that need mud, a blue flower called the blue flag grows thinly in the clear water. It grows from the rocky bottom around the shore and hummingbirds visit it in June. The blue leaves and flowers, and their reflections, match the color of the water really well.

White Pond and Walden are like big crystals on the Earth’s surface, Lakes of Light. If they were frozen solid and small enough to hold, maybe slaves would carry them off like precious jewels to decorate kings. But since they are liquid, big, and belong to us forever, we ignore them and chase after diamonds like the Kohinoor. They are too pure to have any money value; they have no dirt. They are much more beautiful and clear than our lives and our personalities. They never taught us to be mean. They are way prettier than the pond in front of the farmer’s house where ducks swim! Clean wild ducks come here. Nature doesn’t have any people who really understand her. The birds with their feathers and songs fit well with the flowers, but no young people work together with nature’s wild beauty. She grows best alone, far from the towns where people live. Talk about heaven! You shame the earth.
