Rachleff pointed out that the negative connotation with reverse splits among investors had lessened due to the sheer number of them. Marc hypothesized that being delisted in a post-newspaper economy might not matter so much.
 
 Still, I did not want to reverse split the stock. More than anything, it felt like a capitulation and a dramatic sign of weakness. Reverse splitting would say to the market that I believed we really were worth half the cash that we had in the bank. I also didn’t want the company to get delisted. I knew that Marc would be right one day, but I also knew that many institutional investors were prohibited from buying penny stocks in the current day and age. I decided to hit the road.
 
 The first big question was “Hit the road to go see whom?” At that time, most institutional investors wouldn’t invest in stocks with prices under $10, let alone under $1. So Marc and I called our networking guru, the famous angel investor Ron Conway, for advice. We told him the story, explaining that the $20 million a year EDS contract alone made the Opsware business worth something, and adding that we had a great team and huge amount of intellectual property, so there was no reason for us to trade at half of cash. Ron listened carefully and then said, “I think you should go see Herb Allen.” I had heard about Herb’s investment bank, Allen & Company, but didn’t really know much about him. Allen & Company was famous for running the best business conference in the world. The conference is invitation-only and consistently attracts guests whom you will never find at any other conference.
 
 People like Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Rupert Murdoch are regulars. Allen & Company may attract more top-tier guests than all other business conferences combined—it’s that good.
 
 Marc and I arrived at the Allen & Company office in Manhattan, located in the Coca-Cola building where Herb’s father, Herbert, had served on the board of directors for many years. If a single word could describe the Allen & Company office it would be classy. Beautifully decorated, yet not flashy, the office was both elegant and comfortable.
 
 Like his office, Herb himself was both unassuming and classy. He opened the meeting by complimenting Ron, saying that any referral from Ron was personally important to him. Marc and I then carefully took Herb through the story of Loudcloud—how we had sold the services business to EDS, retaining the software and the key people, and had secured a $20 million a year software license. Beyond that, we had a totally clean balance sheet and were surely worth more than $0.35 per share. Herb listened attentively to the entire presentation and then said, “I’d like to be helpful. I’ll see what I can do.” I had no idea if he
 
