good enough. I needed people who were great where I needed greatness. I needed people who really wanted to do the jobs they were hired for. And I needed people who believed in the mission—to make Silicon Valley a better place to build a company.
 
 The first person we hired was Scott Kupor, who had been the director of finance from Opsware. Scott worked for me for nearly the entire eight years, and I’m not sure that he enjoyed any of it, but he performed phenomenally nonetheless. He ran customer support, planning, and technical field operations during those years, but none of the jobs were what he wanted to do. Scott loved three tasks: running things, strategy, and deals. If he could do those things, he’d almost never sleep. But at Opsware, he’d only gotten to do two of the three. Not getting to work on transactions was torture for Scott. He was like a caged animal. And I’d kept him in that cage for eight long years. So, when we designed the firm, the first thing that came to my mind was “I finally found the perfect job for Kupor.” Scott became the firm’s chief operating officer.
 
 We then filled out the rest of the team. We hired Mark Cranney, head of sales at Opsware, to run the large-company network; Shannon Callahan, former head of recruiting and HR, to run the engineering network; Margit Wennmachers, the Sultan of Swat, to run the marketing network; Jeff Stump, the best executive recruiter we knew, to run the executive network; and Frank Chen, my former head of product management, to run a centralized research group.
 
 Our theory about what a venture capital firm should offer turned out to resonate with the best entrepreneurs in the world. In four very short years, we have gone from nothing to being one of the most respected venture capital firms in the world.
 
 FINAL LESSON “I know you think my life is good cause my diamond piece But my life been good since I started finding peace.” —NAS, “LOCO-MOTIVE” I often joke that I am considered to be a much better CEO now than I was when I was actually CEO. These days people sometimes refer to me as a management guru, but when I managed Opsware most people referred to me as, well, less than that. As Felicia is fond of saying, “They called you everything but a child of God.” What happened? Did I change or did perception change?
 
