Your friends and family think you are a genius for choosing to work at the “it” company before anyone else knew it was “it.” Your résumé gets stronger by working at a blue-chip company in its heyday.
 
 Oh, and you are getting rich.
 
 When things go poorly, all those reasons become reasons to leave. In fact, the only thing that keeps an employee at a company when things go horribly wrong —other than needing a job—is that she likes her job.
 
 THINGS ALWAYS GO WRONG There has never been a company in the history of the world that had a monotonously increasing stock price. In bad companies, when the economics disappear, so do the employees. In technology companies, when the employees disappear, the spiral begins: The company declines in value, the best employees leave, the company declines in value, the best employees leave. Spirals are extremely difficult to reverse.
 
 BEING A GOOD COMPANY IS AN END IN ITSELF When I first met Bill Campbell, he was chairman of Intuit, on the board of Apple, and a mentor to many of the top CEOs in the industry. However, those things did not impress me nearly as much as his time running GO Corporation back in 1992. The company raised more money than almost any other venturecapital-backed startup in history and lost nearly all of it before selling itself for nearly nothing to AT&T in 1994.
 
 Now that probably doesn’t sound impressive. In fact, it probably sounds like a horrible failure. But I’d met dozens of GO employees in my career, including great people like Mike Homer, Danny Shader, Frank Chen, and Stratton Sclavos.
 
 The amazing thing was that every one of those GO employees counted GO as one of the greatest work experiences of their lives. The best work experience ever despite the fact that their careers stood still, they made no money, and they were front-page failures. GO was a good place to work.
 
 This made me realize what an amazingly effective CEO Bill was. Apparently, John Doerr thought that, too, because when Scott Cook needed a CEO for Intuit, John recommended Bill even though Bill lost a ton of John’s money at GO. And
 
