corporations to the talent, where he felt that it belonged.
 
 The firms of the day were essentially collections of loosely affiliated talent agents. Agents worked under the same umbrella, but acted largely alone, each agent tapping into her own network on behalf of her own clients. For example, Agent A might introduce Dustin Hoffman to the head of Warner Bros., but both the relationship with Dustin Hoffman and the relationship with Warner Bros.
 
 were controlled entirely by the agent; other William Morris agents and clients didn’t automatically get access to either. This traditional model sounded a lot like the traditional venture capital business, where VCs worked in the same firm but managed their own networks and their own portfolios.
 
 Ovitz’s breakthrough idea was to build an integrated network that would allow any of the firm’s agents to connect their clients to a firm-wide grid of new opportunities. As a result, the firm would be a hundred times more powerful than any one agent at any other agency. To implement the idea, Ovitz and his founding partners agreed to defer their salaries for several years and invest their commissions into building what Ovitz referred to as “The Franchise.” The Franchise consisted of specialists running networks and portfolios in each relevant area: book publishing, international, music, and more. His theory worked, and within fifteen years, CAA represented 90 percent of the top talent in Hollywood and had rewritten the rules—giving talent more say in deals and a bigger piece of the financial pie.
 
 We decided to copy CAA’s operating model nearly exactly—in fact, Andreessen Horowitz employees have the same titles as the original CAA employees: partner. Michael thought it was a great idea, but he was the only one.
 
 Everyone else offered some variation of the following: “This is Silicon Valley, not Hollywood. You guys don’t understand the business.” Still, with Michael’s endorsement and enthusiastic support, we pushed forward with the idea. As we applied it to venture capital, we decided to build the following networks: Large companies Every new company needs to either sell something to or partner with a larger company.
 
 Executives If you succeed, at some point you need to hire executives.
 
 Engineers In the technology business, you can never know enough great engineers.
 
 Press and analysts We have a saying around the firm: Show it, sell it; hide it, keep it.
 
