There is no question that I learned a great deal over the years and I am pretty embarrassed about how I conducted myself in the early days, but by the end I became pretty good at running the company. There is plenty of evidence supporting this view. I completely changed our business midstream—even while it was a publicly traded company—and still managed to grow its value from $29 million to $1.65 billion in five years. A large percentage of the employees from Opsware either work for me at Andreessen Horowitz or in one of our portfolio companies, so they must have liked something about working together. The acquisition by HP was the largest outcome in the sector, so we won our market.
 
 Still, during the years that I was good at running Opsware—from 2003 to 2007—you would be hard-pressed to find a single article or blog post or message board comment that said anything nice about me. During that time, the press declared the company dead and shareholders called for my resignation. No, I was not considered to be very good at all.
 
 In retrospect, people’s perceptions changed because of the sale to HP and the things that I’ve since written. Once I stopped being CEO, I was granted a freedom that I did not have before. As a venture capitalist, I have had the freedom to say what I want and what I really think without worrying what everybody else thinks. As a CEO, there is no such luxury. As CEO, I had to worry about what everybody else thought. In particular, I could not show weakness in public. It would not have been fair to the employees, the executives, or the public company shareholders. Unrelenting confidence was necessary.
 
 When we started Andreessen Horowitz, I could let all that go. Sure, we still have employees, but we do not have public shareholders who live and die on every piece of press. More important, at Andreessen Horowitz I am not really CEO. We invest in companies that have CEOs. The burden of unrelenting confidence lies with them. I can now share my weaknesses, my fears, and my shortcomings. I can say what I want without worrying about offending the wrong people in the power structure. And it’s those fears and controversial opinions that hold the clues to dealing with hard things. Hard things are hard because there are no easy answers or recipes. They are hard because your emotions are at odds with your logic. They are hard because you don’t know the answer and you cannot ask for help without showing weakness.
 
 When I first became a CEO, I genuinely thought that I was the only one struggling. Whenever I spoke to other CEOs, they all seemed like they had everything under control. Their businesses were always going “fantastic” and their experience was inevitably “amazing.” I thought that maybe growing up in
 
