as Twitter doesn’t make sense and can be quite destructive. CEOs should be evaluated against their company’s opportunity—not somebody else’s company.
 
 Let me share a funny story that illustrates a CEO really owning delivering against results. This story is from Robin Li, CEO of Baidu, China’s biggest search engine company. In a lecture he gave at Stanford University in 2009, Robin recalls that on the day of Baidu’s IPO—usually one of an entrepreneur’s most exhilarating days in his entire life—he sat at his desk terrified. Why? Listen to how Robin owned delivering results: In 2004, we raised our last round of VC money led by Draper Fisher Jurvetson . . . and Google, one of our great colleagues. Then a year later, in 2005, the company went public. The ideal price was $27 [the stock’s initial offer price] and it closed on the first day at $122. It was great for many of the Baidu employees and for all of the Baidu investors. It was a very miserable thing for me because when I decided to take the company public, I was only prepared to deliver financial results that match the price of $27 or maybe a little higher, $30, $40. But I was really shocked to see that the price went to $122 on the first day. So that meant I needed to deliver real results that matched an expectation much, much higher than what I had prepared to do. But in any case, I thought I had no choice. So I put my head down and focused on operations, focused on technology, focused on the user’s experience, and I delivered.
 
 Once we’ve taken all of this into account, we see that the results against objectives or “black box” results are a lagging indicator. And as they say in the mutual fund prospectuses, “past performance is no guarantee of future results.” The white-box CEO evaluation criteria—“Does the CEO know what to do?” and “Can the CEO get the company to do it?”—will do a much better job of predicting the future.
 
 CLOSING THOUGHT CEO evaluation need not be a byzantine, unarticulated art. All people, including CEOs, will perform better on a test if they know the questions ahead of time.
 
