looking for the Platonic ideal for a head of sales. You imagine what the perfect sales executive might be like, and then you attempt to match realworld candidates to your model. This is a bad idea for several reasons. First, you are not hiring an abstract executive to work at an arbitrary company.
 
 You must hire the right person for your company at this particular point in time. The head of sales at Oracle in 2010 would likely have failed in 1989.
 
 The VP of engineering at Apple might be exactly the wrong choice for Foursquare. The details and the specifics matter. Second, your imaginary model is almost certainly wrong. What is your basis for creating this model? Finally, it will be incredibly difficult to educate an interview team on such an abstract set of criteria. As a result, everybody will be looking for something different.
 
 Valuing lack of weakness rather than strength The more experience you have, the more you realize that there is something seriously wrong with every employee in your company (including you). Nobody is perfect.
 
 The very best way to know what you want is to act in the role. Not just in title, but in real action. In my career, I’ve been acting VP of HR, CFO, and VP of sales. Often CEOs resist acting in functional roles, because they worry that they lack the appropriate knowledge. This worry is precisely why you should act—to get the appropriate knowledge. Indeed, acting is really the only way to get all the knowledge that you need to make the hire, because you are looking for the right executive for your company today, not a generic executive.
 
 In addition to acting in the role, it helps greatly to bring in domain experts. If you know a great head of sales, interview them first and learn what they think made them great. Figure out which of those strengths most directly match the needs of your company. If possible, include the domain expert in the interview process. However, be aware that the domain expert only has part of the knowledge necessary to make the hire. Specifically, she has very little knowledge of your company, how it works, and what its needs are. Therefore, you cannot defer the decision to the domain expert.
 
 Finally, be clear in your own mind about your expectations for this person upon joining your company. What will this person do in the first thirty days?
 
 What do you expect their motivation to be for joining? Do you want them to build a large organization right away or hire only one or two people over the next year?
 
