influence. Mark stayed on the phone with the sales reps and the people whom we knew at the accounts. Jordan and Dave came up with ten different ways to word the amendment. We stayed up all night working on the deal and the entire time, Dave looked as though he was having a massive heart attack. Miraculously, by 11 a.m., we got all three contracts amended, and it was in less than twenty-four hours. We would not have to restate revenue.
 
 Not surprisingly, the entire thing spooked BMC, and they withdrew their bid.
 
 They did not believe that the issue had been put to bed. HP wasn’t spooked, but they lowered their offer to $13.75 per share due to the “taint” on the deal.
 
 That night the board met in our offices to discuss the new offer from HP and inform them that BMC had dropped out. The board was unanimous in its advice that we should take the $13.75 offer. I disagreed. I said that I would not take a nickel less than the $14.25 originally offered. Bill Campbell looked at me like I was a general who had spent too much time in the field. At that point, I had not slept and didn’t know if he was right or wrong. I just knew that I had waited all night to be right and I couldn’t get much wronger.
 
 I gathered myself and restated my position: “HP offered $14.25, a price that equals sixteen times trailing twelve months revenue for one reason and one reason only. They offered it because we are the premium company, the gold standard if you will in an important market. That is the entire premise of this deal. The second that we accept a discounted offer or in any other way suggest that we are not the gold standard, this deal falls apart.” John O’Farrell nodded in agreement. The board uneasily accepted my position.
 
 I went back to HP and told them the deal would be $14.25 or nothing. After about a two-hour pause, during which time the color never returned to Dave Conte’s face, they accepted. We had a deal. A deal for about $100 million less than if our so-called partner had not stabbed us in the back, but a deal nonetheless. I still hate Ernst & Young.
 
 I am telling this story today because just when you think there are things you can count on in business, you quickly find that the sky is purple. When this happens, it usually does no good to keep arguing that the sky is blue. You just have to get on and deal with the fact that it’s going to look like Barney for a while.
 
