SOLVING THE ACCOUNTABILITY VS.
 
 CREATIVITY PARADOX A software engineer identifies a weakness in your current product architecture that will significantly impair its ability to scale down the road. She figures out that she’ll have to slip the product schedule three months to fix it. Everybody agrees that three months is an acceptable slip to correct the problem. The schedule actually slips nine months, but she was right about the problem. Do you reward her for her creativity and courage or hold her accountable for the slip?
 
 If you become a prosecuting attorney and hold her to the letter of the law on her commitments, you will almost certainly discourage her and everybody else from taking important risks in the future. If you take this stance consistently, don’t be surprised in the future if your people don’t have time to solve hard problems because they will be far too busy covering their butts.
 
 On the other hand, if you don’t hold her accountable for her commitment, then the people who actually do the work to meet their commitments might feel like idiots. Why did I stay up all night making the deadline if the CEO rewards the person who missed her schedule by six months? If your hardest working, most productive employees feel like chumps and you are looking for the culprit, look in the mirror. You have failed to hold people accountable for their actions.
 
 Welcome to the Accountability vs. Creativity Paradox.
 
 As we look to solve it, let’s start with the most basic assumption. Do you assume that your employees are by and large creative, intelligent, and motivated? Or do you assume that they are lazy, conniving, and counting the minutes to quitting time? If you believe the latter, then you might as well just give up on creativity and innovation in your organization, because you will not get it. It’s better to believe the former and assume that people have good intentions unless they prove otherwise. Still, you must hold people accountable to avoid the chump factor. How do you think about that?
 
 Let’s look at accountability across the following dimensions: promises, results, and effort.
 
