is a true friend.
 
 To every employee who ever worked at Loudcloud or Opsware, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. I still cannot believe that you believed in me as much as I believed in you. On that team, very special thanks to Jason Rosenthal, Mark Cranney, Sharmila Mulligan, Dave Conte, John O’Farrell, Jordan Breslow, Scott Kupor, Ted Crossman, and Anthony Wright for being part of this book.
 
 Hopefully, I didn’t get anything too wrong. Thank you, Eric Vishria, Eric Thomas, Ken Tinsley, and Peter Thorp, for helping me remember what happened. Thanks also to Ray Soursa, Phil Liu, and Paul Ingram for saving the company. Darwin forever! Thanks so much, Shannon Callahan. I still cannot believe that I laid you off. Thanks to Dave Jagoda for not letting me forget what matters.
 
 I thank Tim Howes, my Loudcloud/Opsware cofounder and confidant. I do not know if we made all the right decisions, but I do know that our conversations kept me sane. Thank you for being there from start to finish.
 
 Without Carlye Adler, my editor and coach, I am not sure that I would have even started this book, let alone finished it. Nobody was more jazzed when I wrote something good or sadder when I wrote something boring. Thank you, Carlye, for making this book so much better than it should have been.
 
 Special thanks to Hollis Heimbouch for tracking me down on Facebook and getting me to write the book. I could not have asked for a better publisher. A thank-you to the entire team at HarperCollins.
 
 Binky Urban is the top literary agent in the world, and I am so lucky to have had the chance to be her client. It is a great joy to work with the very best.
 
 I thank my friends Nasir Jones and Kanye West for being so inspirational in their work and helping me articulate emotions that seemed impossible to express. I also appreciate them for letting this fan backstage.
 
 Steve Stoute has been an outstanding friend throughout this process, helping me find my voice and letting me know that the work that I am doing is important.
 
 Thanks to my oldest friend, Joel Clark Jr., for being a great friend for fortythree years and letting me tell the story of how we met.
 
 Chris Schroeder helped me edit the book and maintained a crazy amount of enthusiasm while doing so. Chris blows me away with his interest in this work.
 
 Many times, he seems even more interested than I am.
 
 Thank you, Herb Allen, for being a great friend and letting me write about you. I know that is not your favorite thing.
 
