roadblocks. If anyone was stuck on anything for any reason, it could not last more than twenty-four hours—the time between meetings.
 
 Meanwhile, Anthony worked furiously to find the exciting value we could offer EDS. We started with little things that did not change our fate, but revealed important clues. We flew our main EDS executive, Frank, out to meet with our top engineers and architects. In booking the trip, Anthony reported that Frank requested the longest layover possible in the connecting airport. I thought that I misheard him. “What, he wants a long layover?” Anthony: “Yep.” Ben: “Why would anybody want a long layover in an airport?” Anthony: “Apparently, he likes to hang out in the airport bar between flights.” Ben: “Why does he like to do that?” Anthony: “I asked him the same question. Frank said: ‘Because I hate my job and I hate my family.’ ” Wow. I had no idea who I was dealing with until that point. Understanding how differently Frank viewed the world than the people at Opsware helped clarify my thoughts. Frank expected to get screwed by us. It’s what always happened to him in his job and presumably in his personal life. We needed something dramatic to break his psychology. We needed to be associated with the airport bar, not with his job or his family.
 
 At the same time, Jason marched the team through the deployment with unrelenting precision. A month into the plan, the Southwest Airlines crew that worked the San Jose–Dallas flight knew Jason and his team by name. They made steady progress, but it wasn’t going to be enough. We would not get EDS fully deployed in sixty days—so now we really needed Anthony to deliver exciting value.
 
 As I sat in my office hoping for a breakthrough, my cell phone rang. It was Anthony.
 
 Anthony: “Ben, I think I’ve got it.” Ben: “Got what?” Anthony: “The exciting value is Tangram.” Ben: “What?” Anthony: “Tangram. EDS uses a product from a company called Tangram that inventories their hardware and software. Frank absolutely loves it, but the purchasing guys are going to force him to switch to an equivalent Computer Associates product, because it’s free as part of EDS’s settlement with CA. Frank hates the CA product. Frank is getting screwed again.”
 
