tirelessly refined his craft. Not only did he write exceptional books on management, but he taught management classes at Intel throughout his tenure.
 
 In his classic book Only the Paranoid Survive, Grove tells how he led Intel through the dramatic transition from the memory business to the microprocessor business. In making that change he walked away from nearly all his revenue. He humbly credits others in the company with coming to the strategic conclusion before he did, but the credit for swiftly and successfully leading the company through the transition goes to Dr. Grove. Changing your primary business as a sixteen-year-old large, public company raises a lot of questions.
 
 Andy describes an incident with one of his employees: “One of them attacked me aggressively, asking, ‘Does it mean that you can conceive of Intel without being in the memory business?’ I swallowed hard and said, ‘Yes, I guess I can.’ All hell broke loose.” Despite shocking many of his best employees with this radical strategy, ultimately the company trusted Andy. They trusted him to rebuild their company around an entirely new business. That trust turned out to be very well placed.
 
 SO, ARE GREAT LEADERS BORN OR MADE?
 
 Let’s look at this one attribute at a time: Articulating the vision There is no question that some people are much better storytellers than others. However, it is also true that anybody can greatly improve in this area through focus and hard work. All CEOs should work on the vision component of leadership.
 
 Alignment of interests I am not sure if the Bill Campbell attribute is impossible to learn, but I am pretty sure that it is impossible to teach. Of the three, this one most fits the bill “born not made.” Ability to achieve the vision This attribute can absolutely be learned; perhaps this is why Andy Grove’s tolerance for incompetence was legendarily low. Indeed, the enemy of competence is sometimes confidence. A CEO should never be so confident that she stops improving her skills.
 
 In the end, some attributes of leadership can be improved more than others, but every CEO should work on all three. Furthermore, each attribute enhances all three. If people trust you, they will listen to your vision even if it is less
 
