Decision making Some employees make products, some make sales; the CEO makes decisions. Therefore, a CEO can most accurately be measured by the speed and quality of those decisions. Great decisions come from CEOs who display an elite mixture of intelligence, logic, and courage.
 
 As already noted, courage is particularly important, because every decision that a CEO makes is based on incomplete information. At the time of any given decision, the CEO will generally have less than 10 percent of the information typically present in the post hoc Harvard Business School case study. As a result, the CEO must have the courage to bet the company on a direction even though she does not know if the direction is right. The most difficult decisions (and often the most important) are difficult precisely because they will be deeply unpopular with the CEO’s most important constituencies (employees, investors, and customers).
 
 The best decision that I made in my career—to sell the Loudcloud business to EDS and become Opsware—would have lost by a landslide had I put it to a vote with my employees, my investors, or my customers.
 
 As CEO, there is never enough time to gather all information needed to make a decision. You must make hundreds of decisions big and small in the course of a typical week. You cannot simply stop all other activities to gather comprehensive data and do exhaustive analysis to make that single decision.
 
 Knowing this, you must continuously and systematically gather knowledge in the company’s day-to-day activities so that you will have as much information as possible when the decision point arrives.
 
 In order to prepare to make any decision, you must systematically acquire the knowledge of everything that might impact any decision that you might make.
 
 Questions such as: What are the competitors likely to do?
 
 What’s possible technically and in what time frame?
 
 What are the true capabilities of the organization and how can you maximize them?
 
 How much financial risk does this imply?
 
 What will the issues be, given your current product architecture?
 
