products named “X.” CA would then change the name of product “X” to product “Y” and charge their customers for an upgrade the customers thought they were entitled to for free. It was very clever, and totally dirty. To fight back, savvy customers started requiring all software vendors to include “the CA clause” in their contracts. The clause stated that if you released a new version of your software that contains all of the functionality of the previous version, plus some new features and a new name, then that product (despite the new name) would be covered under the existing contract with no additional fees due.
 
 There were two possible ways to interpret the CA clause. You could either interpret it as it was intended, as a workaround for CA’s bad behavior, or you could interpret it as a promise of future functionality. If you interpreted it as the former then you were required to recognize all the revenue up front. If you interpreted it as the latter, then you would recognize the revenue ratably over the course of the contract. In either case, cash payments would be the same.
 
 We understood this ambiguity when we signed the three deals that contained the clause, so we had our E&Y partner, Dave Price, audit the deals and then tell us how we should account for them. Dave correctly understood the intent and recommended that we take the revenue up front in all three deals. BMC’s E&Y partner concluded the opposite and they accounted for similar deals ratably.
 
 When alerted to the difference, the BMC partner escalated the issue to Ernst & Young’s national office.
 
 E&Y’s national audit partner called me to report that he now disagreed with his partner’s audit and required that we restate revenue guidance in the next forty-eight hours. I couldn’t believe what I had just heard. Restating revenue would tank the stock price and destroy the pending sale. The accounting had no material impact on cash flows and our treatment was based on the judgment of Ernst & Young in the first place. If they had accounted for it the other way initially, the stock price would be the same as it is now. It was the restatement that would kill us.
 
 What the hell?
 
 I calmed down and replied carefully.
 
 Ben: “The accounting is meant to reflect the intent of both us and our customers in the contract, correct?” E&Y: “Correct.” Ben: “So, why don’t we call all three customers on the phone and ask them their intent? If it’s what Dave Price reflected in our contracts, then we’ll leave them as they are. If it’s something else, we’ll restate revenue.”
 
