event that’s usually the cause of a bit more fanfare.
 
 The road show was brutal. The stock market crashed daily, and technology stocks were to blame. Investors looked like they’d come out of torture chambers when we arrived. One mutual fund manager looked right at Marc and me and asked, “Why are you here? Do you have any idea what’s going on in the world?” I thought that there was no way we’d be able to raise the money. We were going to go bankrupt for sure. I did not sleep more than two hours total during that entire three-week trip.
 
 Three days into the tour, I received a call from my father-in-law. John Wiley had been through a lot in his seventy-one years. As a boy, his father was murdered in Texas. In order to survive, he and his mother moved in with an unkind man and his nine children. There, John was abused, made to stay in the barn with the animals, while the other children ate his dinner. Eventually, John and his mother left that cruelty by walking for three days down a dirt road, carrying everything they owned. John would recall that journey in great detail his entire life. As a young man, before finishing his high school education, he left home to fight in the Korean War so that he could support his mother. As a young father of five, he took every job imaginable to support his family, including unloading banana boats and working to build the Alaskan pipeline. He tragically saw two of his children die before he reached the age of sixty. He had a hard life and was used to bad news.
 
 John Wiley did not call me for casual reasons. If he called, it was serious, possibly even deadly serious.
 
 Ben: “Hello.” John: “Ben, the office said not to bother you, but I just want to let you know that Felicia stopped breathing, but she is not going to die.” Ben: “Not going to die? What?!?! What happened?” I could not believe it. I had been so focused on work that I had lost focus of the only thing that really mattered to me. Once again, I neglected to worry about the one thing that I should have worried about.
 
 Ben: “What happened?” John: “They gave her some medicine and she had an allergic reaction and she stopped breathing, but she’s okay now.” Ben: “When?” John: “Yesterday.” Ben: “What? Why didn’t you tell me?” John: “I knew that you were busy and that you were really in trouble at work
 
