or a company with a CEO whom she doesn’t like.” Maybe Cathy will see it that way, but probably not.
 
 People generally leave companies when things are not going well, so you should assume that Cathy is fighting for her company’s life. In this situation, nothing will cut her deeper than losing a great employee, because she knows that the other employees will see that as a leading indicator of the company’s demise.
 
 Even more damaging for Cathy is the fact that her employees will perceive your move as an act of betrayal—Cathy’s so-called friend is raiding her company.
 
 They will think, “Cathy is such an ineffective CEO that she cannot even keep her friends from hiring her people.” In this way, a logical issue quickly becomes an emotional one.
 
 You don’t want to lose Cathy as a friend, so you assure her that Mitchell is the exception and that he came to you and that he will be the first and only one of her employees that joins your company. Generally, this explanation will work and Cathy will understand and appreciate the gesture. She will forgive, but rest assured, she will not forget.
 
 Her memory of Mitchell will be important, because Mitchell will be just the first step in the demise of your relationship. Since Mitchell is a stellar hire, Cathy’s other strong employees will likely call Mitchell to understand why he left and where he is going. He will explain his reasoning and his reasons will be compelling. And suddenly they will want to follow Mitchell’s path and join your company, too. By the time you become aware of the situation, promises will have been made to prospective employees who approached Mitchell and offers may be out.
 
 In each case, your employees will assure you that they were approached by Cathy’s employees and not vice versa. They will point out that the candidates have offers from other companies as well, so they will definitely leave and you might as well benefit from their restlessness. Cathy’s managers will almost certainly tell a different story. They will plead with her to get her friend to stop raiding their stable of employees or else they will never be able to meet their commitments. This will embarrass and enrage Cathy. In the end, social pressure will trump all your brilliant countervailing logic.
 
 Here’s an easy way to think about the dynamic. If your husband left you, would you want your best friend to date him? He’s going to date somebody, so wouldn’t you want your friend to have him? It seems logical, but this situation is far from logical and you just lost one friend.
 
