complex and hard for investors to understand. We typically signed customers to two-year contracts, and then recognized the revenue monthly. This model is now common, but it was quite unusual then. Given the fast growth in our bookings, revenue lagged behind new bookings by quite a bit. As a result, our S-1 (our registration with the SEC) stated that we had $1.94 million in trailing six months revenue, and we forecast $75 million for the following year—an incredibly steep revenue ramp. Since earnings are driven by revenue and not bookings, we had gigantic losses. In addition, the stock option rules at the time made it seem like our losses were about four times as large as they actually were. These factors led to extremely negative press heading into the IPO.
 
 A scathing story in Red Herring, for instance, noted that our list of customers was “quite thin” and that we were too reliant on dot-coms. It quoted a Yankee Group analyst positing that we had “lost something like $1 million dollars per employee over the last 12 months,” and conjecturing that the way we did it was by having a bonfire in the parking lot and getting everyone busy burning dollar bills. BusinessWeek took us apart in an article that declared us “the IPO from hell.” A Wall Street Journal cover piece quoted a money manager’s reaction to our offering as “Wow, they were desperate.” One financier—who actually invested in the offering—called it “the best option among a particularly ugly set of options.” Despite the horrifying press, we prepared to hit the road. Benchmarking ourselves against comparable companies, we settled on the price of the offering at $10 per share after an upcoming reverse split, which would value the company at just under $700 million—less than the valuation from the previous private round of financing, but much better than bankruptcy.
 
 It was not at all clear that we would be successful with the offering. The stock market was crashing, and the public market investors we visited were visibly distressed.
 
 At the end of the preparation process and after the banks had signed off, our director of finance, Scott Kupor, received a call from our banker at Morgan Stanley.
 
 Banker: “Scott, did you know that $27.6 million of your cash is restricted and tied up in real estate commitments?” Scott: “Yes, of course.” Banker: “So, you have just over three weeks’ worth of cash before you go bankrupt?” Scott: “Yes.”
 
