wanted to schedule a follow-up meeting, he would explain the nuances of training salespeople to be elite across a broad set of disciplines including process, products, and organizational selling. He explained further that even with all those things, a successful sales leader still must inspire courage in the team.
 
 He sounded like General Patton. I knew I had my guy.
 
 Unfortunately, nobody else knew that. Every member of the executive staff (with one exception) and every member of the board of directors voted thumbsdown on Mark Cranney. When I asked Bill Campbell what he thought, he said, “I won’t lay down on the railroad tracks to stop you from hiring Cranney.” That wasn’t the ringing endorsement I was looking for. The reasons for voting “no” never referred to Mark’s lack of strength, but rather to his abundance of weakness: Mark went to Southern Utah. Mark made people feel uncomfortable.
 
 Mark did not look like a head of sales.
 
 Still, the more time I spent with him, the more I knew he was the one. In talking with him for an hour, I’d learn more about sales than I had in six months running sales. He would even call me with details about deals my sales team was competing for—deals my own sales reps didn’t seem to know about. It was like he had his own sales FBI.
 
 I decided to take a stand. I told my team and the board that I understood their concerns, but I still wanted to move forward with Mark and planned to proceed with reference checks.
 
 When I asked Mark for his references, he surprised me again. He gave me a list of seventy-five references. He said he had more if I needed them. I called every reference on the list, and every one called me back within one hour. Mark ran a tight network. Maybe these references were the sales FBI. Then, just as I was getting ready to make the hire, another executive on my team called to say that a friend of hers knew Mark Cranney and wanted to give a negative reference.
 
 I called the friend—I’ll call him Joe—and proceeded to have the most unusual reference call of my career: Ben: “Thanks very much for reaching out.” Joe: “My pleasure.” Ben: “How do you know Mark Cranney?” Joe: “Mark was an area vice president when I taught sales training at my previous employer. I want to tell you that under no circumstances should you hire Mark Cranney.” Ben: “Wow, that’s a strong statement. Is he a criminal?” Joe: “No, I’ve never known Mark to do anything unethical.”
 
