declared Microsoft a monopoly, the index plummeted even further. Startups lost massive value, investors lost massive wealth, and dot-coms, once heralded as the harbinger of a new economy, went out of business almost overnight and became known as dot-bombs. The NASDAQ eventually fell below 1,200, an 80 percent drop from its peak.
 
 We thought our business might have been the fastest growing of all time at that point. That was the good news. The bad news was that we needed to raise even more money in this disastrous climate; nearly all of the $66 million in equity and debt we had raised had already been deployed in our quest to build the number-one cloud service and to support our now fast-growing set of customers.
 
 The dot-com crash had spooked investors, so raising money wasn’t going to be easy, especially since most of our customers were dot-com startups. This became quite clear when we pitched the deal to the Japanese firm Softbank Capital. My friend and Loudcloud board member Bill Campbell knew the Softbank people well and offered to get some “back-channel” information following the pitch. When my assistant told me that Bill was on the line, I quickly answered the phone. I was eager to hear where we stood.
 
 I asked, “Bill, what did they say?” Bill replied in his raspy, coach’s voice, “Ben, well, honestly, they thought you were smoking crack.” With nearly three hundred employees and very little cash left, I felt like I was going to die. It was the first time I’d felt that way as CEO of Loudcloud, but not nearly the last.
 
 During this time I learned the most important rule of raising money privately: Look for a market of one. You only need one investor to say yes, so it’s best to ignore the other thirty who say “no.” We eventually found investors for a series C round (meaning our third round of funding) at an amazing $700 million premoney valuation and raised $120 million. The sales forecast for the quarter came in at $100 million, and things seemed like they might be okay. I felt confident that our sales forecasts would hold up given that previous forecasts had underestimated actual performance. And perhaps, I speculated, we could seamlessly migrate our customer base away from dot-com bombs to more stable, traditional customers such as Nike, our largest customer at the time.
 
 And then the wheels came off.
 
 We finished the third quarter of 2000 with $37 million in bookings—not the $100 million that we had forecast. The dot-com implosion turned out to be far more catastrophic than we had predicted.
 
