made the best and most courageous decision he could and did not sell the company. I believe that will prove to be the defining moment of his career.
 
 Interestingly, as soon as Hamlet made the decision, the entire board and executive team immediately embraced the choice. Why? If they wanted to sell the company enough to advise the CEO to give up his dream, how could they reverse themselves so quickly? It turns out that the most important data point driving their earlier preference for selling the company was Hamlet’s initial ambivalence—the team supported the decision they thought the CEO wanted.
 
 Hamlet did not realize this and interpreted their desire to sell to be the result of a thorough analysis. Luckily for everybody involved, he had the courage to make the right decision.
 
 The general problem can be seen in the social credit matrix below. The expected social rewards for making the crowd-influenced decision appear better than those for making the decision you think is right: You are right You are wrong You decide Few remember that you made Everybody remembers the against the the decision, but the company decision and you are downgraded, crowd.
 
 succeeds. ostracized, or fired.
 
 You Everyone who advised you You receive the minimum blame decide remembers the decision and the possible for getting it wrong, but with the company succeeds. the company suffers.
 
 crowd.
 
 On the surface, it appears that if the decision is a close call, it’s much safer to go with the crowd. In reality, if you fall into this trap, the crowd will influence your thinking and make a 70-30 decision seem like a 51-49 decision. This is why courage is critical.
 
 COURAGE, LIKE CHARACTER, CAN BE DEVELOPED In all the difficult decisions that I made through the course of running Loudcloud and Opsware, I never once felt brave. In fact, I often felt scared to death. I never lost those feelings, but after much practice I learned to ignore them. That learning process might also be called the courage development process.
 
 In life, everybody faces choices between doing what’s popular, easy, and wrong versus doing what’s lonely, difficult, and right. These decisions intensify
 
