Scott then relayed the conversation to me, saying, “Can you believe they underwrote the deal and didn’t notice that the cash was restricted until now? We gave them all the documents.” Right before we were to leave for the IPO road show, I called an all-company meeting to share two pieces of news: First, we were going public, or at least we were going to try to go public. Second, the company had fallen so far in value that we would have to reverse split the stock two for one.
 
 I thought the first part would go okay, but I was worried about how the second piece of news would be received. We had to reverse split the stock to get the price per share high enough to go public. In theory, a reverse split shouldn’t matter at all. Each employee owned a certain percentage of the company. The company had a total number of shares of stock. Multiply the total number of shares by the percentage, and you get the employees’ share number. Cut the number of shares in half and, while employees would have half the number of shares, they’d still own the exact same percentage of the company. Nothing changed.
 
 Oh, but it did. As we grew from zero to six hundred employees in less than eighteen months, the stage was set for hyperbole and momentum. Some overly excited managers oversold the dream. They spoke only in terms of shares rather than in percentages and spun stories of a potential $100 per share stock price.
 
 Employees then calculated their fantasy price per share and figured out how much money they would make. I was aware that this was going on, but I never thought we would reverse split the stock, so I never worried about it. Like many other things that I screwed up during that period, I should have worried.
 
 My wife, Felicia, came to the all-company meeting as she always did. This time her parents were in town, so they came, too. The meeting did not go well.
 
 People did not realize how close to the edge we were, so the news of the IPO didn’t make anyone happy. The news of the reverse split made them even less happy—in fact, it infuriated them. I had literally cut their fantasy number in half, and they were not pleased about it. Nobody said harsh things directly to me. My in-laws, however, heard everything. And, as my father-in-law put it, “it wasn’t nothin’ nice.” My mother-in-law, Loretta, asked my wife, “Why does everybody hate Ben so much?” Felicia, who is normally the most electric, outgoing person in any room, was just recovering from hernia surgery so she wasn’t her normal bubbly self.
 
 She was discouraged. My in-laws were depressed. The employees were pissed. I had no idea if I’d be able to raise the money. What a way to start a road show, an
 
