Cover design by Jarrod Taylor Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reproduce from the following: “Gorgeous,” words and music by Malik Jones, Gene Clark, Jim McGuinn, Kanye West, Ernest Wilson, Mike Dean, Scott Mescudi, and Corey Woods.
 
 Copyright © 2010 Universal Music Corp.; Jabriel Iz Myne, Tickson Music Co.; Sixteen Stars Music, EMI Blackwood Music, Inc.; Please Gimme My Publishing, Inc.; Papa George Music; Chrysalis Music; Let the Story Begin Publishing; Gene Clark Music; Elsie’s Baby Boy; Beautiful Sekai Publishing; and Chrysalis One Songs. All rights for Jabriel Iz Myne controlled and administered by Universal Music Corp. All rights for Sixteen Stars Music controlled and administered by Horipro Entertainment Group, Inc. All rights for Please Gimme My Publishing, Inc., and Papa George Music controlled and administered by EMI Blackwood Music, Inc. All rights for Let the Story Begin Publishing controlled and administered by Chrysalis Music Group, Inc., a BMG Chrysalis Company. All rights for Gene Clark Music controlled and administered by Bug Music, Inc., a BMG Chrysalis Company. All rights for Chrysalis One Songs controlled and administered by BMG Rights Management (Ireland), Ltd. All rights for Elsie’s Baby Boy controlled and administered by Kobalt Music Publishing America. All rights for Beautiful Sekai Publishing controlled and administered by Shelly Bay Music. All rights reserved. Used by permission. Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation, Kobalt Music Publishing America, Shelly Bay Music, and Alfred Music Publishing.
 
 “Who We Be,” words and music by Earl Simmons and Mickey Davis. Copyright © 2001 Boomer X Publishing, Inc.; Dead Game Publishing; Fifty Four Vill Music, LLC; and Kobalt Music Publishing America. All rights for Boomer X Publishing, Inc., controlled and administered by Universal Music Corp. All rights for Dead Game Publishing controlled and administered by EMI April Music, Inc., and Kobalt Music Publishing America. Fifty Four Vill Music, LLC, controlled and administered by the Royalty Network, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 Used by permission. Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation, the Royalty Network, Inc., and Kobalt Music Publishing America.
 
