losses in history. I took Bill through my logic: The only way out of the cloud business without going bankrupt was through higher sales, because even if we laid off 100 percent of the employees, the infrastructure costs would still kill us without a sharper sales ramp. I further explained that the dwindling cash balance decreased customer confidence, which in turn hurt sales, which in turn caused the cash balance to decline further. He simply said “spiral.” And I knew that he understood.
 
 John and I mapped out the ecosystem to figure out which companies might be interested in acquiring the Loudcloud business. Unfortunately, many of the prospective buyers were in dire straits themselves. Giant telecoms Qwest and WorldCom were embroiled in accounting fraud cases, and Exodus had already gone bankrupt. We decided to focus on the three most likely buyers: IBM, Cable & Wireless, and EDS.
 
 IBM’s hosting business, led by the congenial Jim Corgel, immediately took a strong interest. Jim valued the Loudcloud brand and our reputation for technological superiority. EDS, on the other hand, showed no interest. This worried me intensely as I studied all the public filings from both companies; it was clear to me that EDS needed Loudcloud far more than IBM did. Needs always trump wants in mergers and acquisitions. John said to me, “Ben, I think we need to walk away from EDS, so that we can focus on the higher-probability targets.” I asked him to draw the EDS organizational chart one more time to see if we could find someone influential at EDS whom we hadn’t yet approached.
 
 When he did, I asked, “Who is Jeff Kelly?” John paused, then said, “You know, we haven’t gotten to Jeff, but he may be able to make this decision.” Sure enough, Jeff was interested. Now with two potential bidders, we put things in motion. John and I worked hard to create urgency with both IBM and EDS, because time was against us. We hosted both companies in our facilities, sometimes with them passing each other in the hallway as part of John’s wellorchestrated sales technique. The final step was to set the timeline for the endgame. John and I debated the best way to do this as the deadlines that we planned to set were clearly artificial. I suggested that we stop by Los Angeles on our way to Plano, Texas, home of EDS, to get some advice from Michael Ovitz.
 
 Michael was on Loudcloud’s board, but more important, he had formerly been known by many observers as the Most Powerful Man in Hollywood. When he was twenty-eight years old, he started a talent agency, Creative Artists Agency (CAA), which grew to dominate the entertainment industry. CAA’s rise made Michael so influential that he could routinely structure deals that had never been
 
