THE RIGHT WAY TO LAY PEOPLE OFF Shortly after we sold Opsware to Hewlett-Packard, I had a conversation with the legendary venture capitalist Doug Leone of Sequoia Capital. He wanted me to recount the story of how we went from doomed in the eyes of the world to a $1.6 billion outcome with no recapitalization.
 
 After I took him through the details—including several near bankruptcies, a stock price of $0.35 per share, unlimited bad press, and three separate layoffs where we lost a total of four hundred employees—he was most amazed by the layoffs. During more than twenty years in the venture capital business, he’d never seen a company recover from consecutive layoffs and achieve a billiondollar-plus outcome. He confessed that he’d bet against that every time. Since my only experience was the great exception, I needed more information. I asked him why all the other startups failed. He replied that the layoffs inevitably broke the company’s culture. After seeing their friends laid off, employees were no longer willing to make the requisite sacrifices needed to build a company. He said that although it was possible to survive an isolated layoff, it was hugely unlikely that a company would experience great success. Building a highly valuable business, he added, after three consecutive giant layoffs accompanied by horrible prominent press coverage (we got taken apart with cover stories in both the Wall Street Journal and BusinessWeek), was a complete violation of the laws of venture capital physics. He wanted to know how we did it. After thinking about this question, here’s my answer.
 
 In retrospect, we were able to keep cultural continuity and retain our best employees despite multiple massive layoffs because we laid people off the right way. This may sound nutty—how can you do something that’s fundamentally wrong in “the right way”? Here’s how.
 
 STEP 1: GET YOUR HEAD RIGHT When a company fails to hit its financial plan so severely that it must fire the employees it went to great time and expense to hire, it weighs heavily on the chief executive. During the first layoff at our company, I remember being
 
