In assembling the team, you should keep two questions in mind: 1. Who will best help you figure out whether the candidate meets the criteria? These may be internal or external people. They can be board members, other executives, or just experts.
 
 2. Who do you need to support the decision once the executive is on board?
 
 This group is just as important as the first. No matter how great an executive is, they will have trouble succeeding if the people around them sabotage everything they do. The best way to avoid that is to understand any potential issues before the person is hired.
 
 Clearly, some people will be in both groups one and two. The opinions of both groups will be very important: Group one will help you determine the best candidate and group two will help you gauge how easily each candidate will integrate into your company. Generally, it’s best to have group two interview finalist candidates only.
 
 Next, assign questions to interviewers based on their talents. Specifically, make sure that the interviewer who asks the questions deeply understands what a good answer will sound like.
 
 As you conduct the interviews, be sure to discuss each interview with the interviewer. Use this time to drive to a common understanding of the criteria, so that you will get the best information possible.
 
 Backdoor and front-door references.
 
 For the final candidates, it’s critically important that the CEO conduct the reference checks herself. The references need to be checked against the same hiring criteria that you tested for during the interview process. Backdoor reference checks (checks from people who know the candidate, but were not referred by the candidate) can be an extremely useful way to get an unbiased view. However, do not discount the front-door references. While they clearly have committed to giving a positive reference (or they wouldn’t be on the list), you are not looking for positive or negative with them. You are looking for fit with your criteria. Often, the front-door references will know the candidate best and will be quite helpful in this respect.
 
 STEP 3: MAKE A LONELY DECISION
 
