The most important step in the whole exercise is training the management team.
 
 If you send managers into this super-uncomfortable situation with no training, most of them will fail.
 
 Training starts with a golden rule: Managers must lay off their own people.
 
 They cannot pass the task to HR or to a more sadistic peer. You cannot hire an outsourcing firm like the one in the movie Up in the Air. Every manager must lay off his own people.
 
 Why so strict? Why can’t the more confrontational managers just handle this task for everyone? Because people won’t remember every day they worked for your company, but they will surely remember the day you laid them off. They will remember every last detail about that day and the details will matter greatly.
 
 The reputations of your company and your managers depend on you standing tall, facing the employees who trusted you and worked hard for you. If you hired me and I busted my ass working for you, I expect you to have the courage to lay me off yourself.
 
 Once you make it clear that managers must lay off their own people, be sure to prepare them for the task: 1. They should explain briefly what happened and that it is a company rather than a personal failure.
 
 2. They should be clear that the employee is impacted and that the decision is nonnegotiable.
 
 3. They should be fully prepared with all of the details about the benefits and support the company plans to provide.
 
 STEP 5: ADDRESS THE ENTIRE COMPANY Prior to executing the layoff, the CEO must address the company. The CEO must deliver the overall message that provides the proper context and air cover for the managers. If you do your job right, the managers will have a much easier time doing their jobs. Keep in mind what former Intuit CEO Bill Campbell told me—The message is for the people who are staying. The people who stay will care deeply about how you treat their colleagues. Many of the people whom you lay off will have closer relationships with the people who stay than you do, so treat them with the appropriate level of respect. Still, the company must move forward, so be careful not to apologize too much.
 
