with a slide deck detailing why my decision to start Oxide was quixotic, misguided, and downright stupid. They argued that it would steal precious resources from our core business while pursuing a product that would surely fail.
 
 I let them present all forty-five slides without my asking them a single question.
 
 When they finished I said, “Did I ask for this presentation?” Those were the first words I spoke as I made the transition from a peacetime CEO to a wartime CEO.
 
 By virtue of my position and the fact that we were a public company, nobody besides me had the complete picture. I knew we were in deep, deep trouble.
 
 Nobody besides me could get us out of the trouble, and I was through listening to advice about what we should do from people who did not understand all the pieces. I wanted all the data and information I could get, but I didn’t need any recommendations about the future direction of the company. This was wartime.
 
 The company would live or die by the quality of my decisions, and there was no way to hedge or soften the responsibility. If everybody I had hired—and who gave their lives to the company—could be sent home with little to show for it, then there were no excuses that would help. There would be no: “It was a horrible economic environment”; “I got bad advice”; “Things changed so quickly.” The only choices were survival or total destruction. Yes, most things could still be delegated and most managers would be empowered to make decisions in their areas of expertise, but the fundamental question of whether— and how—Loudcloud could survive was mine and mine alone to answer.
 
 We muddled through the fourth quarter of 2001 and beat our target for the year, delivering $57 million in revenue against our $55 million forecast. Not a great win, but very few companies met expectations that year, so I took it as a small victory. The stock price slowly rose to $4 a share, and it looked as though we might be able to make the cloud business work.
 
 In order to do so, we needed more cash. We carefully analyzed our financial plan and decided that we needed another $50 million to get to cash flow breakeven—the point at which we would no longer need to raise money. Given our momentum in the market, raising money was now barely possible and the only way to do it was in the form of a seldom-used construct called a private investment in public equity (PIPE). We worked with Morgan Stanley to line up investors with the goal of raising $50 million.
 
 It was Monday morning, and we were all set to hit the road on Tuesday to raise the PIPE when I got the call. “Ben, the CEO of Atriax is on the phone; shall I put him through?” Atriax, an online foreign currency exchange backed by Citibank and Deutsche Bank, was our largest customer. Atriax paid us more than
 
