After all, I was the founding CEO. I was the one “married” to the company. If things went horribly wrong, they could walk away, but I could not. As a consequence, the employees handled losses much better.
 
 Even more stupidly, I thought that it was my job and my job only to worry about the company’s problems. Had I been thinking more clearly, I would have realized that it didn’t make sense for me to be the only one to worry about, for example, the product not being quite right—because I wasn’t writing the code that would fix it.
 
 A much better idea would have been to give the problem to the people who could not only fix it, but who would also be personally excited and motivated to do so. Another example: If we lost a big prospect, the whole organization needed to understand why, so that we could together fix the things that were broken in our products, marketing, and sales process. If I insisted on keeping the setbacks to myself, there was no way to jump-start that process.
 
 WHY IT’S IMPERATIVE TO TELL IT LIKE IT IS There are three key reasons why being transparent about your company’s problems makes sense: 1. Trust.
 
 Without trust, communication breaks. More specifically: In any human interaction, the required amount of communication is inversely proportional to the level of trust.
 
 Consider the following: If I trust you completely, then I require no explanation or communication of your actions whatsoever, because I know that whatever you are doing is in my best interests. On the other hand, if I don’t trust you at all, then no amount of talking, explaining, or reasoning will have any effect on me, because I do not trust that you are telling me the truth.
 
 In a company context, this is a critical point. As a company grows, communication becomes its biggest challenge. If the employees fundamentally trust the CEO, then communication will be vastly more efficient than if they don’t. Telling things as they are is a critical part of building this trust. A CEO’s ability to build this trust over time is often the difference between companies that execute well and companies that are chaotic.
 
 2. The more brains working on the hard problems, the better.
 
