you do this? It’s not like you’re perfect in your job, either. How can you be so comfortable selling me out?
 
 Those are some powerful emotions, so get ready for an intense discussion.
 
 Ironically, the key to an emotional discussion is to take the emotion out of it. To do that, you must be very clear in your mind about what you’ve decided and what you want to do.
 
 The most important thing to decide is that you really want to do this. If you walk into a demotion discussion with an open decision, you will walk out with a mess: a mess of a situation and a mess of a relationship. As part of the decision, you must get comfortable with the thought that the employee may quit the company. Given the intense emotions he will feel, there is no guarantee that he will want to stay. If you cannot afford to lose him, you cannot make this change.
 
 Finally, you must decide the best role for him in your company. The obvious thing is to have him continue under his new boss, but this may not be the best thing for him, his boss, or his career. Your loyal employee will continue to have lots of knowledge about your company, competition, customers, and market that his new boss lacks. On the one hand, this can be a good thing—he can help get the new boss up to speed. On the other hand, when mixed with the intense emotions of embarrassment and betrayal, you might end up with a sabotage cocktail.
 
 Another problem with this approach is that from a career path perspective there is no way to paint a picture of him reporting to his new boss as anything but a demotion. An alternative, if appropriate, would be to move him to another area of the company where his skills, talent, and knowledge will help. This kind of move will give him a chance to develop a new set of skills and help the company while he’s doing it. For young employees, getting experience in different areas can be highly valuable.
 
 Sadly, this option may not be a silver bullet. He might not want to work in another job; he might be hell-bent on keeping his current job, so prepare for that as well.
 
 Once you’ve decided to hire someone above your friend and decided on the alternatives that you’d like to offer him, you can have the conversation. Keep in mind that you cannot let him keep his old job, but you can be fair and you can be honest. Some keys to doing that: Use appropriate language. Make clear with your language that you’ve
 
