Ben: “He was the CEO of Yahoo. We’re fucked. I’m going to have to shut the company down.” Felicia: “Are you sure?” Ben: “Didn’t you hear me? They fired Koogle. We’re fucked.” She had never seen me that depressed before, and she never forgot it. For most CEOs, the night before their public offering is a highlight. For me, it was a highlight of depression.
 
 IF YOU ARE GOING TO EAT SHIT, DON’T NIBBLE During the road show, as a way to break the tension, Marc would say, “Remember, Ben, things are always darkest before they go completely black.” He was joking, but as we entered our first quarter as a public company, those words seemed prescient. Customers continued to churn, the macroeconomic environment worsened, and our sales prospects declined. As we got closer to our first earnings call with investors, I conducted a thorough review to make sure that we were still on track to meet our guidance.
 
 The good news was that we would meet our forecast for the quarter. The bad news: There was very little chance that we would meet our forecast for the year.
 
 Typically, investors expect that companies will refrain from going public if they can’t hit at least their first year’s forecast. These were exceptional times, but resetting guidance on your very first earnings call was still a very bad thing to do.
 
 As we discussed where to reset guidance to investors, we were faced with a tough choice: Should we try to minimize the initial damage by taking down the number as little as possible or should we minimize the risk of another reset? If we reduced the number by a lot, the stock might fall apart. On the other hand, if we didn’t lower it enough, we might have to reset again, which would cost us all the credibility we had left. My controller, Dave Conte, raised his hand with what would be the definitive advice: “No matter what we say, we’re going to get killed. As soon as we reset guidance, we’ll have no credibility with investors, so we might as well take all the pain now, because nobody will believe any positivity in the forecast anyway. If you are going to eat shit, don’t nibble.” So we reset guidance for the year, slashing our original forecast of $75 million in projected revenue to $55 million.
 
 Resetting revenue guidance also meant resetting expense guidance, and that meant laying people off. We’d been the darling of the startup world, and now I had to send home 15 percent of our employees. It was the clearest indication yet
 
