because of that meeting that I went to.” Ben: “Should I come home?” John: “Oh no. We’ll take care of her. You just take care of what you need to do.” I was completely stunned. I started sweating so hard that I had to change my clothes right after the call. I had no idea what to do. If I returned home, the company would surely go bankrupt. If I stayed . . . how could I stay? I called back and had him put Felicia on the phone.
 
 Ben: “If you need me, I will come home.” Felicia: “No. Get the IPO done. There is no tomorrow for you and the company. I’ll be fine.” I stumbled through the rest of the road show completely discombobulated.
 
 One day I wore a mismatching suit jacket and suit pants, which Marc pointed out to me midway through the meeting. I had no idea where I was half the time.
 
 During the three weeks we were on the road, comparable companies in our market lost half of their value, which meant that our $10 share price was roughly double the current benchmark. The bankers recommended that we lower the price of the offering to $6 a share in order to reflect this new reality, but they gave us no assurance that the deal would actually get done. Then, the day before the offering, Yahoo, the lighthouse company of the Internet boom, announced Tim Koogle, its CEO, was stepping down. We had hit the nadir of the dot-com crash.
 
 The Loudcloud offering finally sold at $6 a share, and we raised $162.5 million, but there was no celebration and no party. Neither Goldman Sachs nor Morgan Stanley—the two banks that took us public—even offered us the traditional closing dinner. It may have been the least celebratory IPO in history.
 
 But Felicia was feeling better, and we had pulled it off. In a brief moment of lightheartedness on the plane ride home, I turned to Scott Kupor, my director of finance, and said, “We did it!” He replied, “Yeah, but we’re still fucked.” Years later, in 2012, after Yahoo fired its CEO, Scott Thompson, Felicia mused, “Should they bring back Koogle?” I replied, “Tim Koogle? How do you even know who Tim Koogle is?” She then relived the conversation we’d had eleven years earlier. It went something like this: Ben: “We’re fucked.” Felicia: “What do you mean? What happened?” Ben: “Yahoo fired Koogle. It’s over. The whole thing is over.” Felicia: “Who is Koogle?”
 
