$1 million per month and had a two-year guaranteed contract. I was in the middle of a meeting with Deb Casados, my vice president of human resources, but I said, “Put him through.” He then informed me that Atriax was bankrupt and could not pay any of the $25 million he owed us. It was like the world stopped spinning. I sat there in a daze until I heard Deb’s voice saying, “Ben, Ben, Ben, do you want to have this meeting later?” I said, “Yep.” I walked slowly over to my CFO’s office to assess the damage. It was worse than I thought.
 
 Given the materiality of losing the contract, we could not raise money without first disclosing that we’d lost our largest customer and $25 million out of our financial plan. We put the PIPE road show on hold and then issued a press release. The stock immediately fell by 50 percent, and with a rapidly declining market cap of $160 million, we could no longer raise $50 million in a PIPE. The plan that was $50 million short of breakeven was now, with the loss of Atriax, $75 million short of breakeven with no way to close the gap. Loudcloud was doomed. I had to deploy Oxide.
 
 The situation was complex, because 440 of our 450 employees worked in the cloud business, which represented all of our customers and generated 100 percent of our revenue. I could not tell the employees or even my executive team that I was considering abandoning the cloud business, because our stock price would have collapsed to nothing, killing any hope of selling the company and avoiding bankruptcy.
 
 The one person I needed and could trust was John O’Farrell. John ran business and corporate development, but more than that he was the greatest big-deal person I had ever known. To illustrate my point, let’s say you were a religious man. We’re speaking in the hypothetical now. And let’s say you had reached your end of days and you faced your maker for final judgment. Let’s further suppose that as your fate was to be decided for all eternity, you were granted a single person to negotiate on your behalf. Whom would you choose? Well, if it were me, I’d take that Irish brother, John O’Farrell.
 
 I told John that he and I needed to execute a contingency plan, and we needed to get started immediately. This would be a two-person project to start, and we needed everyone else focused on the task at hand—reducing Loudcloud’s cash burn. Next I called Bill Campbell to explain why I thought we needed to exit the cloud business.
 
 Bill understood what a crisis looked like since he’d been CEO of GO Corporation in the early 1990s. Essentially GO had attempted to build an iPhone-like device in 1992 and ended up being one of the largest venture capital
 
