E&Y: “No. That’s not good enough. You’ll need to get all three customers to amend their contracts to use new language that we’ve come up with at E&Y to clear things up.” Ben: “But all three customers are large banks. They have risk departments.
 
 They won’t just amend their contracts quickly. To make things worse, we are in the middle of a $1.6 billion transaction. You will wreck our deal.” E&Y: “We don’t care. That’s what you have to do.” Ben: “But we’ve been a customer for eight years, paid you millions of dollars in fees, and your partner made this judgment to begin with. Why would you destroy our transaction if we and the customers verbally agree with the current interpretation?” E&Y: “Either amend the contracts or restate your revenue. You have fortyeight hours.” Dave Price looked like he was going to burst into tears.
 
 E&Y’s national office did not care about the spirit of the law, only the letter.
 
 They refused to do what was right from an accounting or business standpoint.
 
 They were determined to do what was optimally convenient for Ernst & Young.
 
 My CFO, Dave Conte, was pale as a ghost. Hundreds of people had worked for eight years to get to this point and it looked like all that work would be flushed down the toilet by the accounting firm that Dave handpicked. He had worked at Ernst & Young for fifteen years before joining Opsware. Normally gregarious and outgoing, he could barely speak. I was furious at everybody but I knew that nothing that I could say would help the problem or make Dave feel any worse than he already felt. I turned to Jordan Breslow, my general counsel, and said, “Do we have to disclose this to the acquirers right away?” Horrifyingly, he said, “Yes.” We told HP and BMC about the discrepancy and that we thought we could resolve the issue by amending the contracts in the next twenty-four hours.
 
 Neither party believed us. I don’t know if I believed it. How could we possibly get three large banks to amend their contracts in twenty-four hours? Both potential buyers made plans to respond to the news and update their position and possibly their bids.
 
 In the meantime, Dave, Mark Cranney, and I went to work to get the contracts amended. We sat in the finance conference room drawing lines between everybody we knew in the world and tried to figure out how to get to the right people in time to save the deal. I called every board member to see which bank he kept his money in and whether he had any influence or knew somebody with
 
