that I was failing. Failing my investors, failing my employees, and failing myself.
 
 Following the reset, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley—the investment banks that had taken us public—both dropped research coverage, meaning their analysts would no longer follow the company’s progress on behalf of their clients. This was a huge slap in the face and a massive reneging of the promises they made when they were pitching us, but times were tough all around, and we had no recourse. With a vote of no confidence from our banks and a lowered revenue forecast, the stock price plummeted from $6 a share to $2.
 
 Despite the mammoth negative momentum, we soldiered on, and were putting together a fairly strong quarter in the third quarter of 2001. Then, on September 11, terrorists hijacked four jetliners, flying two into the World Trade Center and another into the Pentagon, and in the end throwing the whole world into chaos. It turned out that our largest deal that quarter was with the British government. It represented one-third of our bookings, and we would miss the quarter’s targets badly without it. Our champion on the deal called to inform us that Prime Minister Tony Blair had redirected the funds for our deal to the war chest— literally. By some miracle our sales director convinced one of Tony Blair’s staffers to get the money back, so we got the deal and made the quarter.
 
 Nonetheless, the close call was a sign to me that the entire operation was far too fragile. I got another sign when our largest competitor, Exodus, filed for bankruptcy on September 26. It was a truly incredible bankruptcy in that the company had been valued at $50 billion a little more than a year earlier. It was also remarkable because Exodus had raised $800 million on a “fully funded plan” just nine months earlier. An Exodus executive later joked to me: “When we drove off the cliff, we left no skid marks.” If Exodus could lose $50 billion in market capitalization and $800 million in cash that fast, I needed a backup plan.
 
 In my first attempt at a “Plan B,” we evaluated acquiring Data Return, a company like ours that focused more on Windows applications than Unix applications as we did. We studied the deal for weeks, modeling what the two companies might look like together, figuring out product offerings and cost synergies. My CFO at the time was extremely excited about the deal since it would make use of his favorite skill set—cost cutting.
 
 Toward the end of the process, I took a two-day vacation to Ashland, Oregon.
 
 Almost as soon as I arrived, I received an urgent call from John O’Farrell, who was in charge of corporate and business development.
 
 John: “Ben, sorry to disturb you on vacation, but we just had a meeting on the
 
