while that may have been true, the architectural changes would make our market position vulnerable. I battled myself for weeks before concluding that things were changing fast enough that we’d need to make major changes to our product architecture in order to stay on top. The key to answering the ultimate question was knowing the state of the team. Were they up for yet another giant challenge or were they at the end of a very long road? I decided to bring my direct reports into the loop and ask them what they thought. The answers came back clear: Everyone, with the exception of one person who felt that the opportunity in front of us was still quite large, opted for the sale. Now it was just a matter of price.
 
 But what price?
 
 After a long discussion with John O’Farrell, I decided that the right price to sell the company would be $14 per share, or about $1.6 billion. I took that number back to the board. They thought the number was extremely high and that it was unlikely we’d be able to generate a bid at that level, but they were supportive nonetheless. I called back all the potential acquirers and let them know that we would only entertain bids of $14 or more. There were no takers.
 
 More than a month passed without a word, and I figured the M&A talks had ended. I began refocusing on how to make the necessary changes to keep us competitive. And then I received a call from Bob Beauchamp, the CEO of BMC Software. He offered $13.25 per share. I held firm: “Bob, that’s great, but the number is fourteen dollars per share.” Bob said that he’d have to think about it.
 
 He called back two days later and offered $14 per share. Wow. The dog had caught the bus.
 
 John and I immediately called back all the other suitors to let them know that we had an offer that we planned to take. Hewlett-Packard was still interested and offered $13.50 per share in an effort to make sure that I wasn’t bluffing. I responded that as a public company CEO, I couldn’t take a lower offer. HP eventually offered $14.25 or $1.65 billion in cash. We had a deal.
 
 When it finally ended—the long road from Loudcloud to Opsware—I couldn’t believe that I’d sold what it took eight years and all of my life force to build.
 
 How could I have done that? I was sick. I couldn’t sleep, I had cold sweats, I threw up, and I cried. And then I realized that it was the smartest thing that I’d ever done in my career. We’d built something from nothing, saw it go back to nothing again, and then rebuilt it into a $1.65 billion franchise.
 
 At that point, it felt like my business life was kind of over. I had hired all the best people that I knew or could find, and I had gone through every step from founding to going public to sale. I definitely did not feel like doing any of that
 
