Will the employees be energized or despondent about this promotion?
 
 Great CEOs build exceptional strategies for gathering the required information continuously. They embed their quest for intelligence into all of their daily actions from staff meetings to customer meetings to one-onones. Winning strategies are built on comprehensive knowledge gathered in every interaction the CEO has with an employee, a customer, a partner, or an investor.
 
 2. CAN THE CEO GET THE COMPANY TO DO WHAT SHE KNOWS?
 
 If the CEO paints a compelling vision and makes fast, high-quality decisions, can she then get the company to execute her vision? The first ingredient in being able to do this is leadership, as I outlined in the section “Follow the Leader.” In addition, executing well requires a broad set of operational skills. The larger the organization, the more elaborate the requisite skill set.
 
 In order for a company to execute a broad set of decisions and initiatives, it must: Have the capacity to do so. In other words, the company must contain the necessary talent in the right positions to execute the strategy.
 
 Be a place where every employee can get things accomplished. The employees must be motivated, communication must be strong, the amount of common knowledge must be vast, and the context must be clear.
 
 Is the CEO building a world-class team?
 
 The CEO is responsible for the executive team plus the fundamental interview and hiring processes for all employees. She must make sure the company sources the best candidates and the screening processes yield the candidates with the right combination of talent and skills. Ensuring the quality of the team is a core part of running the company. Great CEOs constantly assess whether they are building the best team.
 
 The output of this capability is the quality of the team. It’s important to note that team quality is tightly tied to the specific needs of the company in the challenges it faces at the point in time it faces them. As a result, it’s quite possible that the executive team changes several times, but the team is high
 
