When interviewing candidates, it’s helpful to watch for small distinctions that indicate whether they view the world through the “me” prism or the “team” prism.
 
 People who view the world through the “me” prism might describe a prior company’s failure in an interview as follows: “My last job was my e-commerce play. I felt that it was important to round out my résumé.” Note the use of my to personalize the company in a way that it’s unlikely that anyone else at the company would agree with. In fact, the other employees in the company might even be offended by this usage. People with the right kind of ambition would not likely use the word play to describe their effort to work as a team to build something substantial. Finally, people who use the “me” prism find it natural and obvious to speak in terms of “building out my résumé” while people who use the “team” prism find such phrases to be somewhat uncomfortable and awkward, because they clearly indicate an individual goal that is separate from the team goal.
 
 On the other hand, people who view the world purely through the team prism will very seldom use the words I or me even when answering questions about their accomplishments. Even in an interview, they will deflect credit to others on their previous team. They will tend to be far more interested in how your company will win than in how they will be compensated or what their career path will be. When asked about a previously failed company, they will generally feel such great responsibility that they will describe in detail their own misjudgments and bad decisions.
 
 When we hired the head of worldwide sales for Opsware, using this screen proved to be quite valuable. Since this was a sales position, I should mention (in reference to the commenter above) that ambition for the company above one’s own goals is particularly important for the head of sales. The reasons are many: The local incentives in sales are particularly strong and difficult to balance without the right kind of leadership.
 
 The sales organization is the face of the company to the outside world. If that group optimizes for itself, your company will have a major problem.
 
 In high-tech companies, fraud generally starts in sales due to managers attempting to perfect the ultimate local optimization.
 
 Throughout our interview process, we met with a lot of candidates who took sole credit for landing extremely large deals, achieving impressive goals, and
 
