“I Will Survive,” words and music by Dino Fekaris and Frederick J. Perren.
 
 Copyright © 1978 Universal-PolyGram International Publishing, Inc., and Perren-Vibes Music, Inc. All rights controlled and administered by UniversalPolyGram International Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Used by permission.
 
 Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation.
 
 “On to the Next One,” words and music by Kasseem Dean, Jessie Chaton, Shawn Carter, Michel Andre Auge Gaspard, and Xavier De Rosnay. Copyright © 2009 Universal Tunes, a division of Songs of Universal, Inc.; Monza Ronza, Universal Music Publishing MGB France, Options; Because Editions; WB Music Corp. (ASCAP); and Carter Boys Music (ASCAP). All rights for Monza Ronza controlled and administered by Universal Tunes, a division of Songs of Universal, Inc. All rights for Universal Music Publishing MGB France and Options in the U.S. and Canada controlled and administered by Universal Music-MGB Songs. All rights for Because Editions controlled and administered by Blue Mountain Music, Ltd. All rights on Behalf of Itself and Carter Boys Music administered by WB Music Corp. All rights reserved. Used by permission. Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation and Alfred Music Publishing.
 
 “Scream on ’Em,” by Kasseem Dean and Jayceon Terrell Taylor. Copyright © 2006 Universal Tunes, a division of Songs of Universal, Inc.; Monza Ronza; Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC; Baby Game Music; and Pico Pride Publishing. All rights for Monza Ronza controlled and administered by Universal Tunes, a division of Songs of Universal, Inc. All rights on behalf of Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, and Baby Game Music administered by Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, 8 Music Square West, Nashville, TN 37203.
 
 All rights for Pico Pride Publishing controlled and administered by Ciw2, Inc.
 
 All rights reserved. Used by permission. Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard Corporation, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, and Ciw2, Inc.
 
 “All Gold Everything,” words and music by Devon Gallaspy and Nicholaus Joseph Williams. Copyright © 2013 Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC and Trinlanta Publishing. All rights on behalf of Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, administered by Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, 8 Music Square West, Nashville, TN 37203. All rights reserved. Used by permission. Reprinted by permission of Sony/ATV Music Publishing, LLC, and Trinlanta Publishing.
 
