possibility of acquisition and run a short process to understand the interest in the M&A market.
 
 Through that process, eleven companies made acquisition offers of some form. This told me that we were at a local maxima in terms of the market price for Opsware. In other words, the set of potential buyers was convinced that the market was very important, and there was no extra premium that we could hope to achieve through better awareness. In the end, based on a lot of analysis and soul-searching, I determined that the current local maxima was higher than we could expect to achieve in the next three to five years and I sold the company to Hewlett-Packard for $1.65 billion. I think and hope that was the right decision.
 
 THE EMOTIONAL The funny thing about the emotional part of the decision is that it’s so schizophrenic.
 
 How can you ever sell your company after you’ve personally recruited every employee and sold them on your spectacular vision of a thriving, stand-alone business? How can you ever sell out your dream?
 
 How can you walk away from total financial independence for yourself and every member of your close and distant family? Aren’t you in business to make money? How much money does one person need?
 
 How can you reconcile Dr. Stay-the-Course and Mr. Sell-the-Thing? Clearly they are irreconcilable, but the key is to mute them both.
 
 A few keys on muting the emotions: Get paid (a salary). Most venture capitalists like entrepreneurs that are “all in,” meaning the entrepreneur has everything invested in the company and will have very little to show for her efforts if it does not succeed. As part of this, they prefer the founding CEO to have a very low salary. In general, this is a good idea, because the temptation to walk away when things go poorly is intense and total financial commitment helps him to keep his other commitments. However, once the company starts to become a company rather than an idea it makes sense to pay the CEO at market.
 
 More specifically, once the company has a business (as defined above) and becomes an attractive acquisition target, it makes sense to pay the CEO, so that the decision to keep or sell the company isn’t a direct response to the CEO’s personal financial situation, as in “I don’t think that we should sell the company, but I live in an eight-hundred-fifty-square-foot apartment
 
