stock price over a dollar, they would “delist” us from the exchange and send us to the purgatory known as penny stocks. The board debated the best way to do this—reverse-split the stock, a stock buyback, or other options—but I felt we just needed to tell our story. The story was simple. We had a great team, $60 million in the bank, a $20 million a year contract with EDS, and some serious intellectual property. Unless I was the worst CEO of all time, we should be worth more than $30 million. The story took hold, and the stock climbed above $1 a share.
 
 Next, I had to ship a product. Opsware had been built to run Loudcloud and Loudcloud only. It was not yet ready for the world. In fact, parts of the code were hardwired to physical machines in our building. Beyond that, the user interface was far from ready for prime time. The component that managed the network was called the Jive and featured a purple pimp hat on the front page.
 
 Project Oxide gave us a running start, but our engineers were nervous. They brought me a long list of features that they felt we needed to complete prior to entering the market. They pointed to competitors with more finished products.
 
 As I listened to their lengthy objections, it became clear to me that the features the engineers wanted to add all came from Loudcloud requirements. As painful as it might be, I knew that we had to get into the broader market in order to understand it well enough to build the right product. Paradoxically, the only way to do that was to ship and try to sell the wrong product. We would fall on our faces, but we would learn fast and do what was needed to survive.
 
 Finally, I had to rebuild the executive team. I had a CFO who didn’t know software accounting, a head of sales who had never sold software, and a head of marketing who did not know our market. Every one of them was great at their old jobs, but not qualified for their new jobs. It was miserable, but necessary, to see them all go.
 
 The strategy and the team came together, and the business started working.
 
 We began signing customers at a consistent pace and our stock price rose from its $0.35 low to more than $7 a share. It felt like we were finally out of the woods.
 
 Naturally I was wrong.
 
 SIXTY DAYS TO LIVE A few quarters into Opsware, we received very bad news from our largest customer, EDS. “Largest customer” really understates it; EDS accounted for 90 percent of our revenue. And they were not happy. Their Opsware deployment
 
