to his success goes beyond those attributes. In any situation—whether it’s the board of Apple, where he’s served for over a decade; the Columbia University Board of Trustees, where he is chairman; or the girls’ football team that he coaches—Bill is inevitably everybody’s favorite person.
 
 People offer many complex reasons for why Bill rates so highly. In my experience it’s pretty simple. No matter who you are, you need two kinds of friends in your life. The first kind is one you can call when something good happens, and you need someone who will be excited for you. Not a fake excitement veiling envy, but a real excitement. You need someone who will actually be more excited for you than he would be if it had happened to him. The second kind of friend is somebody you can call when things go horribly wrong —when your life is on the line and you only have one phone call. Who is it going to be? Bill Campbell is both of those friends.
 
 I presented my thinking as follows: “We have not been able to find any investors in the private markets. Our choices are to either keep working on private funding or start preparing to go public. While our prospects for raising money privately seem quite difficult, going public has a large number of issues: “Our sales processes are not robust and it’s difficult to forecast in any environment.
 
 “We are not in any environment; we are in a rapidly declining environment and it’s not clear where the bottom is.
 
 “Our customers are going bankrupt at an alarming and unpredictable rate.
 
 “We are losing money and will be losing money for quite some time.
 
 “We are not operationally sound.
 
 “In general, we are not ready to be public.” The board listened carefully. Their expressions showed deep concern with the issues I’d raised and an awkwardly long silence ensued. As expected, Bill broke the dead air.
 
 “Ben, it’s not the money.” I felt a strange sense of relief. Maybe we didn’t have to go public. Maybe I’d overestimated our cash problems. Perhaps there was another way.
 
 Then Bill spoke again, “It’s the fucking money.” Okay, I guess we’re going public.
 
 In addition to the issues I had outlined for the board, our business was
 
