ACKNOWLEDGMENTS F irst and most important, I thank my beautiful wife of twenty-five years, Felicia Horowitz. It is a little odd thanking her, because she has been so central to the story that she is more properly the coauthor. She has been my number-one supporter and her belief in me and in this book has meant everything. There would be no book without her, and there is no me without her. She is my partner in life and the love of my life, and I owe her everything that I have and everything that I am. I do not have the words to express the magnitude of gratitude that I feel. Felicia, I love you and I thank you.
 
 I am extremely grateful to the countless people who helped me through all the difficult times and to the people who helped me articulate what all that was like.
 
 I hope this book pays some of that forward.
 
 Next my mother, Elissa Horowitz, who always encouraged me to pursue anything that I wanted to do—from playing football to writing this book. She believed in me when nobody else did and understood me like nobody else ever could. Thanks, Mom!
 
 I also thank my father, David, who convinced me that writing this book was a good idea and then put in long hours helping me edit it.
 
 None of this would have been possible without my longtime business partner Marc Andreessen seeing things in me that nobody else did. Beyond that, it’s been amazing to work with him for the past eighteen years. He’s been a great inspiration to me in everything that I do. He was the primary editor of the first dozen blog posts that I wrote and a very helpful editor of this book. It’s a great privilege for me to work with someone of his caliber every day.
 
 I thank my friend Bill Campbell for teaching me so many things about how to survive the hard times. So few people went through what he went through and almost nobody is willing to talk about it. Bill, thank you for your honesty and courage.
 
 Michael Ovitz helped me rewrite the ending of the book and make it ten times better. Before that, he did everything imaginable to support me in my impossible quest—up to and including buying Opsware stock when nobody else would. He
 
