executive should be like. This error often leads to the executive not bringing the key, necessary qualities to the table.
 
 You hired for lack of weakness rather than for strengths. This is especially common when you run a consensus-based hiring process. The group will often find the candidate’s weaknesses, but they won’t place a high enough value on the areas where you need the executive to be a worldclass performer. As a result, you hire an executive with no sharp weaknesses, but who is mediocre where you need her to be great. If you don’t have world-class strengths where you need them, you won’t be a world-class company.
 
 You hired for scale too soon. The most consistently wrong advice that venture capitalists and executive recruiters give CEOs is to hire someone “bigger” than required. “Think about the next three to five years and how you will be a large company” is how the bad advice usually sounds. It’s great to hire people who can run a large-scale organization if you have one.
 
 It’s also great to hire people who know how to grow an organization very fast if you are ready to grow your organization very fast. However, if you do not or you are not, then you need someone who can do the job for the next eighteen months. If you hire someone who will be great in eighteen months but will be poor for the next eighteen months, the company will reject her before she ever gets a chance to show her stuff. Your other employees will wonder: Why did we give her all those stock options when she’s not contributing anything? Those kinds of questions are impossible to recover from. It turns out that venture capitalists and executive recruiters are not stupid; they just learned the wrong lessons from previous failures.
 
 To learn the right lesson, see the special case of scaling and the special case of fast growth as explained below.
 
 You hired for the generic position. There is no such thing as a great CEO, a great head of marketing, or a great head of sales. There is only a great head of sales for your company for the next twelve to twenty-four months.
 
 That position is not the same as the same position at Microsoft or Facebook.
 
 Don’t look for the candidate out of central casting. This is not a movie.
 
 The executive had the wrong kind of ambition. In chapter 6, I will describe the difference between ambition for the company and ambition for oneself. If an executive has the wrong kind of ambition, then despite her skills, the company may reject her.
 
