Ben: “So what can we do?” Anthony: “If Tangram can come free with Opsware, then Frank will love us.” Ben: “That sounds economically impossible. If we buy the licenses from Tangram and give them to EDS, that will be a colossal expense. We’ll never be able to describe it to Wall Street.” Anthony: “You asked me what EDS really wanted. They really want Tangram.” Ben: “Got it.” I had never heard of Tangram, so I quickly looked them up. They were a small company in Cary, North Carolina, but they traded on the NASDAQ market. I looked up their market capitalization. This couldn’t be right. Tangram Enterprise Solutions, according to Yahoo Finance, was worth only $6 million. I had never heard of a public company being that cheap.
 
 I immediately called my head of business development, John O’Farrell, and told him that I wanted to buy Tangram, and I needed the entire process to be extremely quick—as in, I wanted the Tangram acquisition done before our sixtyday window with EDS closed.
 
 Tangram was run by Norm Phelps, an interim CEO, which was a great sign that they’d be willing to sell the company, because most boards would much rather sell a company than roll the dice by hiring a new CEO. John got in touch with Tangram and they were immediately interested, so we assembled a team to conduct due diligence while we negotiated a merger agreement in parallel. At the end of due diligence, I brought my team back together. They promptly and unanimously agreed that buying Tangram would be a bad idea: The technology would be difficult to integrate and not that valuable. The company was in North Carolina. It was fifteen years old and the technology was old, too. The finance team thought the acquisition was a money loser. I listened, and then I told them all that I didn’t care about any of that. We were going to buy Tangram. The team seemed shocked, but did not argue with me.
 
 John and I negotiated a deal to buy Tangram for $10 million in cash and stock.
 
 We signed the deal prior to the end of the sixty-day plan. I called Frank from EDS to tell him that once the transaction closed, we would include all Tangram software for free as part of his Opsware contract. Frank was ecstatic. Now that we had solved Frank’s Tangram problem, he viewed the work that Jason’s team completed in a totally different light. At the end of the sixty days, Frank gathered our team and made the following speech: “I’ve given the speech that I gave to you guys at the beginning of this process
 
