question was more reality-based than you might think. Nonetheless, “What would you do if capital were free?” is a dangerous question to ask an entrepreneur. It’s kind of like asking a fat person, “What would you do if ice cream had the exact same nutritional value as broccoli?” The thinking this question leads to can be extremely dangerous.
 
 Naturally, I took the advice and ran with it. We quickly built out our cloud infrastructure and began signing up customers at a rapid rate. Within seven months of founding, we’d already booked $10 million in contracts. Loudcloud was taking off, but we were in a race against time and the competition. This meant hiring the best people and fielding the broadest cloud service, and that meant spending money—lots of it.
 
 Our ninth hire was a recruiter, and we hired a human resources person when we had a dozen employees. We were hiring thirty employees a month and snagging many of the Valley’s smartest people. One of our new recruits had quit his job at AOL to spend two months mountain climbing, but instead he joined us; another forfeited millions to join Loudcloud when he resigned from another company on the day of its IPO. Six months in, we had nearly two hundred employees.
 
 Silicon Valley was on fire, and Loudcloud was billed in a Wired cover story as “Marc Andreessen’s second coming.” We traded our first office—where you’d blow a circuit if you ran the microwave and coffeemaker at the same time —for a fifteen-thousand-square-foot warehouse in Sunnyvale, which was too small for us by the time we moved in.
 
 We spent $5 million to move into a new three-story stucco building with jadecolored tiles we called “the Taj” (as in the Taj Mahal). It was also too small to keep pace with our hiring frenzy, and people were sitting in the hallways. We rented a third parking lot down the street and ran shuttle vans to the office. (The neighbors hated us.) The kitchen was stocked like Costco, and when we fired the snack contractor for making our fridge look like the one in Philip Roth’s Goodbye, Columbus, he asked for equity.
 
 This was the time.
 
 In the next quarter, we booked $27 million worth of new contracts, and we were less than nine months old. It seemed like we were building the greatest business of all time. Then came the great dot-com crash. The NASDAQ peaked at 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000—more than double its value from the year before —and then fell by 10 percent ten days later. A Barron’s cover story titled “Burning Up” predicted what was to come. By April, after the government
 
