build to patch the impending cross-organizational challenges.
 
 These six steps should get you pretty far. When we examine advanced organizational design, we’ll also need to consider trade-offs such as speed versus cost, how to roll out organizational changes, and how often you should reorganize.
 
 PROCESS The purpose of process is communication. If there are five people in your company, you don’t need process, because you can just talk to each other. You can hand off tasks with a perfect understanding of what’s expected, you pass important information from one person to another, and you can maintain highquality transactions with no bureaucratic overhead. With four thousand people, communication becomes more difficult. Ad hoc, point-to-point communication no longer works. You need something more robust—a communication bus or, to use the conventional term for human communication buses, a process.
 
 A process is a formal, well-structured communication vehicle. It can be a heavily engineered Six Sigma process or it can be a well-structured regular meeting. The size of the process should be scaled up or down to meet the needs of the communication challenge that it facilitates.
 
 When communication in an organization spans across organizational boundaries, processes will help ensure that the communication happens and that it happens with quality. If you are looking for the first process to implement in your company, consider the interview process. It usually runs across organizational boundaries (the hiring group, human resources—or wherever the recruiter lives, and supporting groups), involves people from outside the company (the candidate), and is critically important to the success of the company.
 
 Who should design a process? The people who are already doing the work in an ad hoc manner. They know what needs to be communicated and to whom.
 
 Naturally they will be the right group to formalize the existing process and make it scalable.
 
 When should you start implementing processes? While that varies depending on your situation, keep in mind that it’s much easier to add new people to old processes than new processes to old people. Formalize what you are doing to make it easy to onboard new people.
 
 Much has been written about process design, so I won’t repeat that here. I
 
