As part of your preparation, you should review any performance reviews or written performance conversations to understand any inconsistencies in your prior communication.
 
 Three keys to getting it right: 1. Be clear on the reasons. You have thought about this long and hard; don’t equivocate or sugarcoat it. You owe it to them to be clear about what you think happened.
 
 2. Use decisive language. Do not leave the discussion open-ended. This is not a performance review; it’s a firing. Use words and phrases like “I have decided” rather than “I think.” 3. Have the severance package approved and ready. Once the executive hears the news, she will stop caring about the company and its issues; she will be highly focused on herself and her family. Be ready to provide specific details of the severance package.
 
 Finally, the executive will be keenly interested in how the news will be communicated to the company and to the outside world. It is best to let her decide. Bill Campbell once gave me a critical bit of advice when I was preparing to fire an executive. He said, “Ben, you cannot let him keep his job, but you absolutely can let him keep his respect.” STEP 4: PREPARING THE COMPANY COMMUNICATION After you have informed the executive, you must quickly update the company and your staff on the change. The correct order for informing the company is (1) the executive’s direct reports—because they will be most impacted; (2) the other members of your staff—because they will need to answer questions about it; and (3) the rest of the company. All of these communications should happen on the same day and preferably within a couple of hours. When disclosing the firing to the direct reports, make sure that you have a plan for whom they will report to in the meantime and what’s next (executive search, reorganization, internal promotion, or something else). Generally, it’s smart for the CEO to act in the executive role in the meanwhile. If you do act in the role, you must really act— staff meetings, one-on-ones, objective setting, etc. Doing so will provide excellent continuity for the team and greatly inform your thinking on whom to hire next.
 
