THE RIGHT KIND OF AMBITION When hiring a management team, most startups focus almost exclusively on IQ, but a bunch of high-IQ people with the wrong kind of ambition won’t work. I have already stressed that you should strive to hire people with the right kind of ambition. As I’ve talked about these ideas in the last few years, I have received a mixed response. Some think it’s good advice, while others question it.
 
 At a macro level, a company will be most successful if the senior managers optimize for the company’s success (think of this as a global optimization) as opposed to their own personal success (local optimization). No matter how well the CEO designs the personal incentive programs, they will never be perfect. In addition, career incentives like promotions and territory ownership fall outside the scope of bonus plans and other a priori management tools. In an equity-based compensation structure, optimizing for the company’s success should yield better results for individuals as well. As my Opsware head of sales Mark Cranney used to say, “Two percent of zero is zero.” It is particularly important that managers have the right kind of ambition, because anything else will be exceptionally demotivating for their employees.
 
 As an employee, why would I want to work long hours to advance the career of my manager? If the manager cares more about his career than the company, then that’s what I’d be doing. Nothing motivates a great employee more than a mission that’s so important that it supersedes everyone’s personal ambition. As a result, managers with the right kind of ambition tend to be radically more valuable than those with the wrong kind. For a complete explanation of the dangers of managers with the wrong kind of ambition, I strongly recommend Dr.
 
 Seuss’s management masterpiece Yertle the Turtle.
 
 SCREENING FOR THE RIGHT KIND OF AMBITION As with any complex character trait, there is no way to perfectly screen for the right kind of ambition in an interview, but hopefully some of these thoughts will prove useful.
 
 At a macro level, everybody views the world through her own personal prism.
 
