approached us, I would always reply, “We are not for sale.” It was a great answer in that I wasn’t ready to sell and it conveyed that, but it also left the door open to a particularly aggressive buyer. “Not for sale” didn’t mean that we wouldn’t listen to offers—it just meant that we weren’t trying to sell the company. So, when EMC implied that it wanted to buy us, I thought nothing of it. We were trading at about $6.50 per share and I wasn’t planning to sell at anything close to that price. But this time the news of the offer leaked to the press and the stock shot up to $9.50 per share, changing the economic equation, especially since the stock was going up for all the wrong reasons.
 
 Ironically, the higher the stock price went up, the more companies wanted to buy us. Over the course of the next month, eleven companies expressed interest.
 
 Given the uncertainty in the business and the implied earnings multiple, their interest was too much to ignore.
 
 To get things started, John and I called Michael Ovitz to get some advice. We felt one of the potential bidders, Oracle, would be the least likely to bid high, because it was extremely disciplined in its financial analysis. We conveyed this to Michael and questioned whether we should pursue Oracle at all. His reply was priceless: “Well, boys, if you are going to have a dog race, then you are going to need a rabbit. And Oracle will be one hell of a rabbit.” With that strategy in hand, we generated a broad set of bids, all between $10 and $11 per share, with the highest bids representing a 38 percent premium over the current stock price. Although this was considered a good premium, I did not feel right selling the company for $11 per share. The team had worked too hard, we’d accomplished too much, and we were too good a company. The risks of staying stand-alone were substantial, but I still wanted to bet on the team. I recommended to the board that we not sell.
 
 The board was surprised, but supportive. Still, they had a fiduciary responsibility to shareholders to ask the tough questions. “If you’re unwilling to sell at eleven dollars per share, is there a price at which you would sell?” I had to think about that one. I had promised the team that if we got to be the number-one company in a big market, we would not sell. We were number one, but how big was the market? Did the team really want to continue or was it just me who wanted to continue? How could I know without panicking the company? And thus began a series of very long talks with myself.
 
 It was an argument to the death, and it was me against me. On the one hand, I argued that virtualization created an explosion of virtual server instances, making what we did more essential than ever. In the next breath, I retorted that
 
