experience in a specific area.
 
 For example, as a technical founder, you probably do not have terrific knowledge of how to build a worldwide sales channel, how to create an invincible brand, or how to identify and negotiate ecosystem-altering business development deals. Acquiring a world-class senior person can dramatically accelerate your company’s ability to succeed in these areas.
 
 One good test for determining whether to go with outside experience versus internal promotion is to figure out whether you value inside knowledge or outside knowledge more for the position. For example, for engineering managers the comprehensive knowledge of the code base and engineering team is usually more important and difficult to acquire than knowledge of how to run scalable engineering organizations. As a result, you might very well value the knowledge of your own organization more than that of the outside world.
 
 In hiring someone to sell your product to large enterprises, the opposite is true. Knowing how your target customers think and operate, knowing their cultural tendencies, understanding how to recruit and measure the right people in the right regions of the world to maximize your sales—these things turn out to be far more valuable than knowing your own company’s product and culture.
 
 This is why when the head of engineering gets promoted from within, she often succeeds. When the head of sales gets promoted from within, she almost always fails. Asking yourself, “Do I value internal or external knowledge more for this position?” will help you determine whether to go for experience or youth.
 
 ONCE THEY ARRIVE Bringing senior people on board can be fraught with peril, as I have outlined in the sections “Why It’s Hard to Bring Big Company Execs into Little Companies” and “Hiring Executives: If You’ve Never Done the Job, How Do You Hire Somebody Good?” (see pages 119 and 124).
 
 Equally difficult is managing them effectively once they come on board.
 
 Senior people pose several important challenges: They come with their own culture. They will bring the habits, the communication style, and values from the company they grew up in. It’s very unlikely these will match your environment exactly.
 
 They will know how to work the system. Because senior people come from larger environments, they usually develop the skills to navigate and be
 
