But you have yet many things which you must give up, and unless you resign them entirely to Me you will not obtain that which you ask.
 
 "I counsel thee to buy of me gold, fire-tried, that thou mayest be made rich"36 -rich in heavenly wisdom which treads underfoot all that is low. Put aside earthly wisdom, all human self-complacency.
 
 I have said: exchange what is precious and valued among men for that which is considered contemptible. For true heavenly wisdom — not to think highly of self and not to seek glory on earth — does indeed seem mean and small and is well-nigh forgotten, as many men praise it with their mouths but shy far away from it in their lives. Yet this heavenly wisdom is a pearl of great price, which is hidden from many.
 
 The Thirty-Third Chapter RESTLESSNESS OF SOUL — DIRECTING OUR FINAL INTENTION TOWARD GOD THE VOICE OF CHRIST MY CHILD, do not trust in your present feeling, for it will soon give way to another. As long as you live you will be subject to changeableness in spite of yourself.
 
 You will become merry at one time and sad at another, now peaceful but again disturbed, at one moment devout and the next indevout, sometimes diligent while at other times lazy, now grave and again flippant.
 
 But the man who is wise and whose spirit is well instructed stands superior to these changes. He pays no attention to what he feels in himself or from what quarter the wind of fickleness blows, so long as the whole intention of his mind is conducive to his proper and desired end. For thus he can stand undivided, unchanged, and unshaken, with the singleness of his intention directed unwaveringly toward Me, even in the midst of so many changing events. And the purer this singleness of intention is, with so much the more constancy does he pass through many storms.
 
 But in many ways the eye of pure intention grows dim, because it is attracted to any delightful thing that it meets. Indeed, it is rare to find one who is entirely free from all taint of self-seeking. The Jews of old, for example, came to Bethany to Martha and Mary, not for Jesus' sake alone, but in order to see Lazarus.
 
 The eye of your intention, therefore, must be cleansed so that it is single and right. It must be directed toward Me, despite all the objects which may interfere.
 
 36Apoc. 3:18.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
