The cross is always there, ready for you. No matter where you go, you can’t run away from it because you take yourself with you. Wherever you look—up, down, outside, or inside—you’ll find a cross in everything. You need to be patient if you want peace inside and a reward that lasts forever.

If you carry the cross gladly, it will help guide you to the place where there is no more suffering. But here on earth, there will still be pain. If you carry it unwillingly, you make it heavier for yourself, but you still have to carry it. If you try to get rid of one cross, another, maybe even harder, will come.

Do you think you can avoid something no person can? Which saint didn’t have a cross or trouble in life? Not even Jesus, who felt pain all the time He was on earth. “It was necessary for Christ to suffer and rise from the dead to enter His glory.” So why are you looking for an easier way than this holy path of the cross?

Jesus’s whole life was full of suffering, and if you want comfort and fun for yourself, you’re fooling yourself. Life is full of problems and crosses everywhere.

The more you grow spiritually, the heavier your cross might feel, because the more you love, the more you feel the pain of being away from home.

But even when life is hard, you have hope because you know a great reward is coming if you carry your cross.

When you carry it gladly, every hard moment becomes a chance to feel God’s comfort. The more your body suffers, the stronger your spirit gets through God’s grace. Sometimes people love their struggles because they want to be like Christ and think they will be closer to God if they can handle more pain.

It’s God’s grace, not your own power, that helps you learn to love what is naturally hard and unpleasant.

To carry the cross, to love it, to control your body, to avoid praise, to accept being looked down on, to suffer losses, and to not want an easy life—this is not something you can do by yourself. But if you trust God, He will give you strength from heaven. You won’t even be afraid of the devil if you have faith and are marked by Christ’s cross.

So be like a good and faithful servant of Christ. Be ready to carry His cross, because He was crucified for you out of love. Be prepared to face many troubles in this hard life, because life will always have problems no matter where you go. You can’t avoid trials and sadness, but you can choose to bear them.
