Oh, how nice and comforting it is to hear You, my Lord God, inviting poor and needy people to receive Your holy Body! Who am I, Lord, to think I can come close to You? Even the whole sky can’t hold You, and yet You say: "Come, all of you, to Me." Why do You give me this kind honor and friendly invitation? How can I be brave enough to come, when I know I haven’t done anything good? How can I welcome You into my home, when I have hurt You so many times? Angels and holy beings respect You, good people fear You, and still You say: "Come to Me: all of you!" If You hadn’t said it, who would believe it? And if You hadn’t told us, who would dare to come near?

Look at Noah, a good man, who worked for a hundred years building the ark to save himself and a few others. How can I get ready in just one hour to respectfully receive the Creator of the world?

Moses, Your special servant and friend, made a special box out of pure wood and covered it with gold to hold Your law; so how can I, a weak and sinful person, easily receive You, the Creator of law and life?

Solomon, the wisest king of Israel, spent seven years building a beautiful temple to honor You and celebrated for eight days. He offered many sacrifices and happily carried the Ark of the Covenant with music and joy to its place. And I, who am unhappy and poor, how can I welcome You into my home when I can barely spend a half-hour properly — I wish I could spend even that much time as I should!

Oh God, those men worked so hard to please You! But how little I do! How short the time I spend getting ready for Communion! I rarely focus completely, and very rarely am I free from distractions. But surely, when I am about to receive Your life-giving presence, no bad thought should come, and nothing else should take my heart, because I am about to receive not an angel, but the Lord of angels.

There is a big difference between the Ark of the Covenant with its treasures and Your pure Body with its amazing qualities, between the old sacrifices that were signs of things to come and the true offering of Your Body that fulfilled all those old sacrifices.

So why don’t I want Your presence more? Why don’t I prepare better to receive Your sacred gifts, when those holy leaders and kings of old showed such strong love for worshiping God?

King David, very devoted, danced with all his strength before the ark, remembering the blessings given to his ancestors. He made many musical instruments. He wrote psalms and had them sung with joy. He played the harp when inspired by the Holy Spirit. He taught the people of Israel to praise God with all their hearts and raise their voices every day to bless and honor Him. If there was such devotion and ceremony in those times before the Ark of the Covenant, how much more should I and all Christians show great respect and love when receiving the Body of Christ!
