Your life here will end soon; think about what might happen to you after. Today we are alive; tomorrow we might die and be quickly forgotten. It’s sad when people only care about now and don’t get ready for what comes next.

So, in everything you do and think, act like you might die today. If your conscience is clear, you won’t be scared of death much. It’s better to avoid doing bad things than to just be afraid of dying. If you’re not ready now, how will you be ready later? Tomorrow isn’t promised; how do you know you’ll have one?

What’s the point of living a long time if you don’t change for the better? Sometimes living longer makes us more guilty, not better. Many people count how long they’ve been religious but don’t become holier. Even if dying is scary, living longer can be even more dangerous. The happiest people are those who always think about death and get ready for it every day.

If you’ve ever seen someone die, remember that you will go the same way.

In the morning, think you might not live until night. At night, don’t promise yourself you’ll see morning. Always be ready, so death won’t surprise you. Many die suddenly and without warning, and that’s when the Son of God will come. When the end comes, you’ll wish you had been more careful with your life.

It’s smart and happy to try now to be the kind of person you want to be remembered as after death. Forgetting about the world, wanting to be better, loving discipline, doing penance, obeying, denying yourself, and accepting hardships for Christ will help you hope for a peaceful death.

You can do a lot of good when you’re healthy; what can you do when you’re sick? Few people get better from sickness. Also, those who go on many pilgrimages don’t always become holy.

Don’t trust too much in friends or family, and don’t wait to take care of your soul. People forget you faster than you think. It’s better to prepare now and leave good things behind than to hope others will help you later. If you don’t care for yourself now, who will when you’re gone?

Right now is very important; this is the time to save yourself. It’s sad when you waste the chance to earn eternal life. One day, you might want just one hour or one day to fix things, but you don’t know if you’ll get it.

So, my dear friend, see the big danger you can avoid and the fear you can escape if you always remember death. Try to live now so that when you die, you feel happy instead of scared.
