If someone has been warned once or twice but still doesn’t change, don’t argue with them. Instead, leave the whole situation to God so that His plan and honor can be fulfilled through all His followers. God knows how to turn bad things into good ones. Try to be patient with other people’s flaws and weaknesses because you also have faults that others have to deal with.

If you can’t make yourself the way you want to be, how can you expect others to change? We want other people to be perfect, but we don’t fix our own mistakes. We want others to be punished for their faults, but we don’t punish ourselves. We get upset when others have too much freedom, but we want to keep our own freedom. We want others to follow strict rules, but we don’t want to follow any rules ourselves. This shows how little we think about others compared to how much we think about ourselves.

If everyone were perfect, why would we have to put up with each other for God’s sake? But God made it this way so we can learn to help each other carry our burdens. No one is without fault, no one is without problems, and no one can manage everything alone or be wise enough. So, we must support, comfort, help, and advise each other. A person’s true goodness is shown during hard times — tough times don’t break a person but show who they really are.

If you want peace and harmony with others, you must learn to give up your own will in many things. Living in monasteries or religious communities, staying there without complaining, and being faithful until death is not easy. Those who live well there and die happy are truly blessed.

If you want to keep trying to be perfect, you must think of yourself as a traveler or stranger on earth. If you want to be religious, you must be okay with looking foolish for Christ. Wearing the clothes and having the haircut of a religious person doesn’t change much; true change comes from changing your life and controlling your desires.

Anyone who wants anything other than God and saving their soul will only find trouble and sadness. And anyone who doesn’t try to be humble and serve others won’t stay peaceful for long.

You came to serve, not to be in charge. You must also understand that you are called to suffer and work, not to waste time gossiping. Here, people are tested like gold in a fire. No one can stay here unless they truly want to humble themselves before God.

Think about the strong examples set by the saints, who had true perfection and faith. When you do, you will realize how little we actually do.
