Chapter 42  
PEACE DOESN’T COME FROM OTHER PEOPLE  

My child, if you try to find peace in someone else because of how you feel or just to be with them, you will end up feeling confused and trapped. But if you turn to the true and lasting Truth, you won’t be sad if a friend dies or leaves you. Your love for your friend should be based on Me. For My sake, love anyone who seems good and close to you in life. Without Me, friendship isn’t strong and won’t last. Love that isn’t connected to Me isn’t real or pure.

You should try to care less about human feelings and even wish to be alone from others if you can. People get closer to God when they move away from the comforts of the world. They get closer to God by looking inside themselves, feeling humble and seeing their own flaws. If you think you are good on your own, it stops God’s grace from coming into your heart because the Holy Spirit only works in humble hearts.

If you knew how to completely forget yourself and stop loving things made by people, then I could fill you with great grace. When you focus on created things, you lose sight of the Creator. So, learn to control yourself in everything for God’s sake. Then you can reach true understanding. But if you love anything too much, even a little thing, it will hold you back from the highest good and harm your soul.

Chapter 43  
WATCH OUT FOR EMPTY AND WORLDLY KNOWLEDGE  

My child, don’t be fooled by clever and smooth words from people.  

The kingdom of heaven isn’t about talking, but about living a good life. Listen instead to My words that light up your heart and mind, make you sorry for your mistakes, and give you many comforts. Don’t read My words just to look smart or wise. Focus on getting rid of your bad habits because that will help you more than understanding hard ideas.

Even if you learn a lot, you must always remember this one thing: I am the one who teaches people knowledge, and I give clearer understanding to those who are humble than any person can. Those who listen to Me will become wise and their souls will grow.
