So, don’t let weird or strange thoughts bother you, no matter what they’re about. Stay strong in your decisions and keep having good intentions toward God.

It’s not fake when you feel really happy or excited about your faith and then suddenly go back to feeling confused or upset inside. These are bad feelings you have to deal with, not things you’re doing wrong. As long as these feelings upset you and you try to fight them, it’s actually a good thing, not a failure.

You should know that the old enemy (the devil) tries everything he can to stop you from wanting to do good. He tries to make you stop praying, stop thinking about the saints, stop remembering Jesus’ suffering, and stop trying to be a better person. He puts bad thoughts in your head to make you tired and scared so you don’t want to pray or read holy books. He hates it when you confess your sins humbly and, if he could, he would even make you skip Communion.

Don’t listen to him or believe him, even though he tries to trick you a lot.

When he puts bad or dirty thoughts in your mind, tell him to go away. Say: "Get out, dirty spirit! You’re disgusting for bringing these thoughts to me. Leave, terrible trickster! You won’t have any part of me, because Jesus is my strength and you will be defeated. I’d rather suffer anything than listen to you.

Be quiet! Be silent! Even if you cause me problems, I won’t accept you. The Lord is my light and my help. Who should I be scared of? Even if many people try to hurt me, I won’t be afraid because the Lord is my helper and savior." Fight like a good soldier. If you mess up sometimes because you’re weak, get back up again with even more strength, trusting in God’s great help. But be careful not to get proud or think too much of yourself. Many people get confused and lost because they become proud. Let their mistakes remind you to always stay humble.

It’s better and safer for you to keep your special feelings of devotion secret. Don’t get too happy or talk too much about them. Instead, stay humble and worry that maybe you’re not worthy of them. Don’t hold on too tightly to these good feelings because they can change quickly. When you feel God’s grace, remember how sad and needy you are without it. Growing in your faith isn’t about always feeling happy or comforted. It’s about being patient and humble when those feelings go away. Keep praying and doing your duties as best as you can, even if you feel dry or worried inside.

Many people get impatient and lazy when things don’t go their way. But life doesn’t always depend on what we want or can do.
