Living without worry or fear is important. Being happy doesn’t mean having lots of stuff; even a little is enough.

Life on earth can be really hard. The more someone wants to live a good spiritual life, the harder things seem because they notice more clearly how flawed people are. Having to eat, drink, sleep, work, and deal with everyday needs feels like a big struggle, especially for those who want to be free from sin. Inside, they feel heavy because of these body needs. That’s why the Prophet prayed to be free from these needs as much as possible. But it’s sad for those who don’t realize how hard life is, and even worse for those who love this broken life so much that they don’t care about God’s kingdom. Some people can barely get what they need by working or asking for help, but they still love this life so much they wouldn’t want to leave it.

It’s really foolish and unfaithful to only care about earthly, physical things. Those people are unhappy because, in the end, they will see that what they loved was cheap and meaningless.

God’s saints and true followers of Christ didn’t focus on what feels good or what’s popular. They hoped for something everlasting. Their desires were always aimed at the invisible and eternal, so they wouldn’t be pulled down by loving only what they can see.

So don’t give up, my friend, on your spiritual journey. There’s still time, and your chance isn’t gone. Why wait? Get up and say, “Now is the time to act, to fight, to change.” When things get hard, that’s when you earn respect. You have to go through tough times before finding peace. If you don’t push yourself, you won’t beat your bad habits.

As long as we live in these weak bodies, we can’t be free from sin or avoid sadness and tiredness. We want to be free from all suffering, but because of sin, we lost true happiness. So we need patience and to wait for God’s mercy until this world’s troubles are gone and life is full.

Human nature is really weak and always wants to do wrong! One day you admit your mistakes, but the next day you make the same ones again. Sometimes you promise to be careful, but soon after you act like you never made that promise.

Because we are weak, we should be humble and not think too highly of ourselves. If we aren’t careful, we can lose what we’ve gained through God’s help and hard work. What will happen to us if we become lazy? It’s bad if we think we’re safe and holy when we’re not. It would help us to learn again the basics of living a good life, to see if we can improve and grow spiritually.
