Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. 1. Ch. II <A> an object by being conscious of the composition of three straight lines in accordance with a rule according to which such an intuition can al­ ways be exhibited. Now this unity of rule determines every manifold, and limits it to conditions that make the unity of apperception possible, and the concept of this unity is the representation of the object X, = which I think through those predicates of a triangle.
 
 A 106 All cognition requires a concept, however imperfect or obscure it may be; but as far as its form is concerned the latter is always something general, and something that serves as a rule. Thus the concept of body serves as the rule for our cognition of outer appearances by means of the unity of the manifold that is thought through it. However, it can be a rule of intuitions only if it represents the necessary reproduction of the manifold of given intuitions, hence the synthetic unity in the con­ sciousness of them. Thus in the case of the perception of something outside of us the concept of body makes necessary the representation of extension, and with it that of impenetrability, of shape, etc.
 
 Every necessity has a transcendental condition as its ground. A tran­ scendental ground must therefore be found for the unity of the con­ sciousness in the synthesis of the manifold of all our intuitions, hence also of the concepts of objectsa in general, consequently also of all ob­ jects of experience, without which it would be impossible to think of any object for our intuitions; for the latter is nothing more than the some­ thing for which the concept expresses such a necessityb of synthesis.
 
 Now this original and transcendental condition is nothing other than A 107 the transcendental apperception.24 The consciousness of oneself in accordance with the determinations of our state in internal perception is merely empirical, forever variable; it can provide no standing or abid­ ing self in this stream of inner appearances, and is customarily called inner sense or empirical apperception. That which should necessar-:­ ily be represented as numerically identical cannot be thought of as such through empirical data. There must be a condition that precedes all ex­ perience and makes the latter itself possible, which should make such a transcendental presupposition valid.
 
 Now no cognitions can occur in us, no connection and unity among them, without that unity of consciousness that precedes all data of the intuitions, and in relation to which all representation of objects is alone possible. This pure, original, unchanging consciousness I will now name transcendental apperception. That it deserves this name is al­ ready obvious from this, that even the purest objective unity, namely that of the priori concepts (space and time) is possible only through a the relation of the intuitions to it. The numerical unity of this appera Objecte Following Erdmann, reading Nothwendigkeit for Nothwendig.
 
 b 232 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
