Since that within which the sensations can alone be ordered and placed in a certain form cannot itself be in turn sensation, the matter of all appearance is only given to us posteriori, but its form must all lie ready for it in the mind priori, a a and can therefore be considered separately from all sensation.
 
 I call all representations pure (in the transcendental sense) in which nothing is to be encountered that belongs to sensation. Accordingly the pure form of sensible intuitions in general is to be encountered in the mind priori, wherein all of the manifold of appearances is intuited in a certain relations. This pure form of sensibility itself is also called pure intuition. So if I separate from the representation of a body that which B 35 the understanding thinks about it, such as substance, force, divisibility, etc., as well as that which belongs to sensation, such as impenetrability, hardness, color, etc., something from this empirical intuition is still left A21 for me, namely extension and form. These belong to the pure intuition, which occurs priori, even without an actual object of the senses or sen­ a sation, as a mere form of sensibility in the mind.
 
 I call a science of all principlesb of priori sensibility the transcen­ a dental aesthetic. * There must therefore be such a science, which con­ stitutes the first part of the transcendental doctrine of elements, in B 36 opposition to that which contains the principlesc of pure thinking, and which is named transcendental logic.
 
 * The Germans are the only ones who now employ the word "aesthetics" to des- A 2 I / B 35 ignate that which others call the critique oft aste. The ground for this is a failed hope, held by the excellent analyst Baumgarten, of bringing the critical estimation of the beautiful under principles of reason,d and elevating its rules to a science. But this effort is futile. For the putative rules or criteria are merely empirical as far as their <most prominent> sources are concerned, and can therefore never serve as <determinate> priori rules according to which our judgment of a taste must be directed; rather the latter constitutes the genuine touchstone of the correctness of the former. For this reason it is advisable <either> again to desist B 36 from the use of this term and preserve it for that docu'ine which is true science (whereby one would come closer to the language and the sense of the ancients, among whom the division of cognition into CHe1JTG¥ V01JTG¥ was very well Kat known), <or else to share the term with speculative philosophy and take aesthetics partly in a transcendental meaning, partly in a psychological meaning>.
 
 a As already noted at p. 156, note a, with the exception of four cases in its final section, throughout the "Transcendental Aesthetic" Kant characteristically uses the term Verbaltnis, connoting a relation among objects, rather than Beziebung, connoting a rela­ tion between subject and object; thus, unless otherwise noted, "relation" or its plural translates Verbaltnis or its derivatives.
 
 Principien b Principien C Vernunftprincipien d 173 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
