Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic

If you only use ideas or thoughts without any experience, you can’t really learn new things about the world. You can only understand things you already know. For example, if you try to prove that two straight lines cannot make a shape just by thinking about the idea of straight lines and the number two, you won’t succeed. Or if you try to prove that three straight lines can make a shape just by thinking about those ideas, it also won’t work.

This shows that you need something more than just ideas—you need to imagine or see the shape. Geometry always depends on this kind of imagination or intuition. But what kind of imagination is it? Is it based on actual experience, or is it something that exists in your mind before any experience? If it was based on experience, we couldn’t have any absolutely certain knowledge because experience can’t give us that kind of certainty.

So, you must have a way of imagining things in your mind that doesn’t come from experience. This is called a priori intuition. If you didn’t have this ability, then how could you say that the rules you use to imagine a triangle also apply to the triangle itself as it really is? You can’t just add new information to your idea of three lines and expect the triangle to be true in real life if the triangle wasn’t related to your way of imagining it.

If space and time were not just the way our mind organizes what we see and feel, then we wouldn’t be able to know anything certain about objects outside us. Space and time are just forms our mind uses to understand things, not things that exist on their own. This means that everything we experience is only how things appear to us, not how they are in themselves.

We can know a lot about how these appearances work just by thinking about them, but we can’t know anything for sure about the real things that cause these appearances.

To support this idea that all our senses only show us appearances and not real things, it helps to understand that everything we know through our senses comes from how we sense it, except for feelings like pleasure or pain.
