On logic in general.
 
 Our cognition arises from two fundamental sources in the mind, the first of which is the reception of representations (the receptivity of im足 pressions), the second the faculty for cognizing an object by means of these representations (spontaneity of concepts); through the former an object is given to us, through the latter it is thought in relation to that representation (as a mere determination of the mind). Intuition and concepts therefore constitute the elements of all our cognition, so that neither concepts without intuition corresponding to them in some way nor intuition without concepts cana yield a cognition. Both are either pure or empirical. Empirical, if sensation (which presupposes the ac足 tual presence of the object) is contained therein; but pure if no sensa足 tion is mixed into the representation. One can call the latter the matter of sensible cognition. Thus pure intuition contains merely the form B 75 under which something is intuited, and pure concept only the form of A 5 I thinking of an object in general. Only pure intuitions or concepts alone are possible priori, empirical ones only posteriori.
 
 a a If we will call the receptivity of our mind to receive representations insofar as it is affected in some way sensibility, then on the contrary the faculty for bringing forth representations itself, or the spontaneity of cognition, is the understanding. It comes along with our nature that intuition can never be other than sensible, i.e., that it contains only the way in which we are affected by objects. The faculty for thinking of objects of sensible intuition, on the contrary, is the understanding.
 
 Neither of these properties is to be preferred to the other. Without sen足 sibility no object would be given to us, and without understanding none would be thought. Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions a The second edition has the plural verb konnen; the first had the singular kann.
 
 193 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
