) The main changes in the second edition, growing partly out oLKant's response to the criticism of the first and partly out of his own concerns, as we have just described, are as follows. (I) Kant replaced the preface to the first edition, which speaks in only the most general terms about the need to place the science of metaphysics on a secure footing, with a considerably longer one that describes in much more detail both the in­ novations of Kant's critical method -it is here that Kant introduces the famous comparison between his own anthropocentric procedure in phi­ losophy and Copernicus's heliocentric revolution in astronomy (Bxvi) -and his position that pure reason ultimately has a positive role only in its practical rather than theoretical use (Bxxiv-xxxvii). The lat­ ter emphasis is clearly meant to respond to the dismissive remarks of the Gottingen review on this subject. r79 The new preface concludes with a brief comment on the changes in the new edition, and then with a long footnote (Bxxix-xli) revising yet further the new "Refutation of Idealism" that is one of the most important of those changes.
 
 (2) The introduction is considerably expanded. Its main changes are, first, a more detailed discussion of the distinction between a priori and a posteriori cognition than the first edition had included, and then an ex­ tended argument that the synthetic a priori cognitions of pure mathe­ matics and physics can only be explained by his transcendental idealism, which are in fact lifted virtually without change from the Prolego­ mena. r80 Kant's inclusion of these pages shows that he is still very con­ cerned to emphasize the difference between Berkeley's idealism and his own, since Berkeley's inability to explain a priori knowledge was one of Kant's chief charges in the Prolegomena.
 
 (3) The "Transcendental Aesthetic" is also considerably expanded.
 
 Kant's aim in its revision seems to have been primarily to buttress the (anti-Berkeleian) argument for the necessity of his transcendental ide­ alism to explain synthetic a priori cognition, rather than the argument that his form of idealism is compatible with knowledge of the real exis­ tence of external objects, which will dominate his revisions in later parts of the work. Thus, Kant divides his previously undivided discussions of space and time into what he now calls the "Metaphysical" and "Trans­ cendental Exposition" of each, where the first of these titles subsumes the arguments that space and time are pure and a priori forms of intu­ ition as well as pure intuitions in their own right, and the second sepa­ rately expounds the argument that our synthetic a priori cognition of mathematics (especially geometry) can only be explained by transcen­ dental idealism. The revised version of the "Aesthetic" concludes with a number of additional arguments in behalf of transcendental idealism that were not present in the first edition.
 
 70 Introduction (4) The next major change comes in the "Transcendental Deduction" of the categories, which Kant rewrote almost completely for the second edition (two introductory sections are left largely unchanged, but the rest is completely rewritten, thirty-five pages in the first edition being replaced with forty completely new ones in the second).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
