This is what Kant tries to do in Book II of the "Transcendental Analytic," called the "Analytic of Principles." This book has three chapters: "The Schematism of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding," "System of All Principles of Pure Understanding," and "On the Ground of the Distinction of All Objects in General into Phenomena and Noumena."

In the first chapter, Kant explains how the categories (basic ideas) from his earlier work can be connected to what we actually sense around us. In the second chapter, he shows rules for how we must apply these categories to our experiences, using arguments that some think prove the categories work on their own. In the third chapter, Kant explains that because the categories only work clearly when applied to things we experience in space and time, and because space and time themselves are just ways we see things, the categories only help us understand appearances ("phenomena"). Things as they really are ("noumena") can be thought about but not truly known.

In the "Schematism," Kant says that the categories, which come from how we think logically, need to connect to objects shaped by space and time. He says this connection happens through a "transcendental schema," which is like a mental pattern that links a logical idea to something we can imagine. He points out that every category must connect to time because time is how we experience everything, while space only applies to outer things.

For example, the idea of cause and effect is linked to time as a rule where something always happens after something else. The cause is "the real thing where, whenever it happens, something else follows," or how events happen one after another following a rule. But Kant also says that even though these schemas are about time, using them depends on understanding some spatial details about the things we experience.

So, the whole argument in the "Analytic of Principles" is that categories have to be used to understand objects in space and time, and they can only give us knowledge about those objects. The rules that say the categories always apply to objects in space and time are the special kinds of truths Kant wants to prove with his new way of thinking about metaphysics.
