Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II <A> thinking subject, into things subsisting for themselves. Thus the mis­ understood physical influence can be completely thwarted by revealing the argument for it to be nugatory and surreptitious.
 
 Thus if one separates out everything imaginary, the notorious ques­ tion about the community between what thinks and what is extended 393 would merely come to this: How is outer intuition namely, that of 4. space (the filling of it by shape and motion) possible at all in a think­ ing subject? But it is not possible for any human being to find an an­ swer to this question, and no one will ever fill this gap in our knowledge, but rather only indicate it, by ascribing outer appearances to a tran­ scendental object that is the cause of this species of representations, with which cause, however, we have no acquaintance at all, nor will we ever get a concept of it. In all the tasks that may come before us in the field of experience, we treat those appearances as objects in themselves, with­ out worrying ourselves about the primary ground of their possibility (as appearances). But if we go beyond their boundary, then the concept of a transcendental object becomes necessary.
 
 An immediate consequence of these considerationsa concerning the community between thinking and extended beings is the decision of all disputes or objections concerning the state of the thinking nature prior to this community (to life) or after such a community is terminated (in death). The opinion that the thinking subject could have thought prior to all community with bodies would be expressed this way: that bef0fe the beginning of the kind of sensibility through which something apA394 pears to us in space, the same transcendental objects that appear as bod­ ies in the present state could have been intuited in a wholly different way. But the opinion that the soul could still continue to think after all community with the corporeal world has been terminated would be ex­ pressed in this form: that if the mode of sensibility through which tran­ scendental (and for now entirely unknown) objects appear as a material world should cease, then not all intuition would thereby be terminated, and it might well be possible for the very same unknown object to con­ tinue to be cognized by the thinking subject, even though obviously not in the quality of bodies.
 
 Now of course no one can adduce the least ground for such an asser­ tion from speculative principles ,b nor even indeed establish its possibil­ ity, but rather it can only be presupposed; yet just as little can anyone make any valid dogmatic objection against it. For whoever he may be, he knows just as little as I or anyone else about the absolute and inner cause of external and corporeal appearances. Therefore he cannot claim to know what the reality of outer appearances rests on in the present a Erinnerungen b Principien 438 Chapter 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
