On this account it is also neither a canon of the understanding in general nor an organon of particular sciences, but B 78 merely a cathartic of the common understanding.
 
 In general logic the part that is to constitute the pure doctrine of reason must therefore be entirely separated from that which constitutes applied (though still general) logic. The former alone is properly sci- A 54 ence, although brief and dry, as the scholastically correct presentation of a doctrine of the elements of the understanding requires. In this therefore logicians must always have two rules in view.
 
 I) As general logic it abstracts from all contents of the cognition of the understanding and of the difference of its objects, and has to do with nothing but the mere form of thinking.
 
 2) As pure logic it has no empirical principles,a thus it draws nothing from psychology (as one has occasionally been persuaded), which there足 fore has no influence at all on the canon of the understanding. It is a proven doctrine, and everything in it must be completely a priori.
 
 What I call applied logic (in opposition to the common signification of this word, according to which it ought to contain certain exercises to which pure logic gives the rule) is thus a representation of the under足 standing and the rules of its necessary use in concreto, namely under the contingent conditions of the subject, which can hinder or promote this B 79 use, and which can all be given only empirically. It deals with attention, its hindrance and consequences, the cause of error, the condition of doubt, of reservation, of conviction, etc., and general and pure logic is related to it as pure morality, which contains merely the necessary moral A 5 5 laws of a free will in general, is related to the doctrine of virtue proper, which assesses these laws under the hindrances of the feelings, inclinations, and passions to which human beings are more or less subject, and which can never yield a true and proven science, since it requires empirical and psychological principlesb just as much as that applied logic does.
 
 II.
 
 On transcendental logic.
 
 General logic abstracts, as we have shown, from all content of cogni足 tion, i.e. from any relation C of it to the object,d and considers only the a Principien b Principien , Beziehung. The contrast between this term and the following use of Verhdltnis (p. 196, note a) shows that Kant continues to use the former to connote a relation between sub足 ject and object and the latter among objects, thuugh in this case objects of thought rather than sensibility. Further, unnoted instances of "relation" translate Beziehung.
 
 Object d 195 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
