Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III principles,a which certainly command greater unity than the empirical use of the understanding can reach, but just because they put the goal A 702/ B 730 we are approaching so far off, they bring this goal to the highest degree of agreement with itself through systematic unity; but if one misunder­ stands them and takes them to be constitutive principlesb of transcen­ dent cognition, then they produce a dazzling but deceptive illusion, persuasion and imaginary knowledge, and thus also eternal contradic­ tions and controversies.
 
 * * * Thus all human cognition begins with intuitions, goes from there to concepts, and ends with ideas. Although in regard to all three elements it has sources of cognition a priori which seem at first glance to scorn the boundaries of all experience, a completed critique convinces us that reason in its speculative use can with these elements never get beyond the field of possible experience, and that the proper vocation' of this supreme faculty of cognition is to employ all its methods and principles only in order to penetrate into the deepest inwardness of natureI28 in accordance with all possible principles d of unity, of which the unity of ends is the most prominent, but is never to fly across the boundaries of nature, outside which there is for us nothing but empty space. Of course the critical investigation, in the Transcendental Analytic, of all A 703 / B 73 I propositions that can extend our cognition beyond all actual experience has sufficiently convinced us that they can never lead to anything mote than a possible experience, and if one were not mistrustful of even the clearest of abstracte and general doctrines/ and if charming and plau­ sible prospects did not lure us to reject the compulsion of these doc­ trines, then of course we might have been able to dispense with our painstaking examination of the dialectical witnesses which a transcen­ dent reason brings forward on behalf of its pretensions; for we already knew beforehand with complete certainty that all their allegations, while perhaps honestly meant, had to be absolutely null and void, be­ cause they dealt with informationg which no human being can ever get.
 
 Yet because there will never be an end to discussion unless one gets to the bottom of the illusion that can fool even the most rational, and also because the resolution of all our transcendental cognition into its elePrincipien n b Principien , Bestimmung d Principien , The first edition reads" ...e ven the clearest or abstract and general ... " f Lehrsdtze Kundschaft g 622 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
