Pt. II. Div. 1. Bk. 1. Ch. II <A> a synthesis priori. Thus the transcendental unity of apperception is re­ a lated to the pure synthesis of the imagination, as an priori condition of a the possibility of all composition of the manifold in a cognition. But only the productive synthesis of the imagination can take place pri­ a ori; for the reproductive synthesis rests on conditions of experience.
 
 The principlea of the necessary unity of the pure (productive) synthesis of the imagination prior to apperception is thus the ground of the pos­ sibility of all cognition, especially that of experience.29 Now we call the synthesis of the manifold in imagination transcen­ dental if, without distinction of the intuitions, it concerns nothing but the connection of the manifold priori, and the unity of this synthesis a is called transcendental if it is represented as necessary priori in rela­ a tion to the original unity of apperception. Now since this latter is the ground of the possibility of all cognitions, the transcendental unity of the synthesis of the imagination is the pure form of all possible cogni­ tion, through which, therefore, all objects of possible experience must be represented priori.
 
 a AII9 The unity of apperception in relation to the synthesis of the imagination is the understanding, and this very same unity, in relation to the transcendental synthesis of the imagination, is the pure un­ derstanding. In the understanding there are therefore pure priori a cognitions that contain the necessary unity of the pure synthesis of the imagination in regard to all possible appearances.30 These, however, are the categories, i.e., pure concepts of the understanding; consequently the empirical power of cognition of human beings necessarily contains an understanding, which is related to all objects of the senses, though only by means of intuition, and to their synthesis by means of imagi­ nation, under which, therefore, all appearances as data for a possible ex­ perience stand. Now since this relation of appearances to possible experience is likewise necessary (since without it we could not obtain any cognition at all through them, and they would thus not concern us at all), it follows that the pure understanding, by means of the cate­ gories, is a formal and synthetic principleb of all experiences, and that appearances have a necessary relation to the understanding.
 
 Now we will set the necessary connection of the understanding with the appearances by means of the categories before our eyes by begin­ ning from beneath, namely with what is empirical. The first thing that A I 20 is given to us is appearance, which, if it is combined with consciousness, is called perception (without the relatione to an at least possible con­ sciousness appearance could never become an object of cognition for us, Principium a Principium b , Verhiiltnis 238 j Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
