On Space <B> experiences. For in order for certain sensations to be relateda to some­ thing outside me (i.e., to something in another place in space from that in which I find myself), thus in order for me to represent them as out­ side <and next to> one another, thus not merely as different but as in different places, the representation of space must already be their ground. Thus the representation of space cannot be obtained from the relations of outer appearance through experience, but this outer expe­ rience is itself first possible only through this representation.
 
 2) Space is a necessary representation, priori, that is the ground of A24 a all outer intuitions. One can never represent that there is no space, though one can very well think that there are no objects to be encountered in it. It is therefore to be regarded as the condition of the possi- B 39 bility of appearances, not as a determination dependent on them, and is an priori representation that necessarily grounds outer appearances.b a <3» Space is not a discursive or, as is said, general concept of relations of things in general, but a pure intuition. For, first, one can only A25 represent a single space, and if one speaks of many spaces, one under­ stands by that only parts of one and the same unique space. And these parts cannot as it were precede the single all-encompassing space as its components (from which its composition would be possible), but rather are only thought in it. It is essentially single; the manifold in it, thus also the general concept of spaces in general, rests merely on limitations. From this it follows that in respect to it an priori intuition a (which is not empirical) grounds all concepts of it.C Thus also all geo­ metrical principles, e.g., that in a triangle two sides together are always greater than the third, are never derived from general concepts of line and triangle, but rather are derived from intuition and indeed derived a priori with apodictic certainty.
 
 <d4) Space is represented as an infinite given magnitude. Now one must, to be sure, think of every concept as a representation that is con- B40 tained in an infinite set of different possible representations (as their common mark), which thus contains these under itself; but no concept, as such, can be thought as if it contained an infinite set of repre­ sentations within itself. Nevertheless space is so thought (for all the parts of space, even to infinity, are simultaneous). Therefore the original representation of space is an a priori intuition, not a concept.> a bezogen In the first edition there follows a paragraph (3) (at A24 above) that is replaced by the b "Transcendental Exposition of the Concept of Space" in the second (see 40- below); B I the following paragraphs, (3) and (4), were thus originally numbered (4) and (5); the content of the original paragraph (5), now renumbered (4), is also changed.
 
 , In the first edition: "of them," i.e., the limitations of space.
 
 d As previously mentioned, the content of this paragraph is changed from the first edition.
 
 175 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
