44 Though Kant did not yet see how much effort this would involve, his task in the Critique of Pure Reason and subsequent works would be precisely to show that knowledge of the "unity of nature" or of constant laws of na­ ture is the necessary condition of the unity of our own experience, and to explain how knowledge of such laws of nature itself is possible.
 
 Kant's thought about the problem of causal laws would be advanced further in the last of the four key works of 1762-63, the essay on Negative Magnitudes. But before we turn to that, we will consider the different steps in the direction of the Critique that Kant took in the third of these works, the Inquiry concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality. Kant wrote this work in the late fall of 1762 and submitted it to the Academy of Sciences in Berlin by I January 1763, the deadline for the Academy's competition on the question of whether metaphysics, conceived to include natural theology and ethics, had the same prospects for certitude as mathemat­ ics and could use the same method. The Academy, still dominated by Wolffians, preferred Moses Mendelssohn's elegant restatement of the fundamental tenets of Wolffianism for the first prize, but recognized the merits of Kant's essay with an honorable mention and publication along with Mendelssohn's essay (which did not take place until I764).
 
 In the rationalist tradition, Mendelssohn argued for the similarity of the methods of mathematics and philosophy -although with a twist, the suggestion that the certitude of metaphysics is even greater than that of mathematics. In an account of the epistemology of mathematics that would still be acceptable to many philosophers, he argued that the proof of mathematical theorems from their premises depends solely on the application of logical principles to mathematical concepts, but that the truth of mathematical propositions is an empirical matter, depend­ ing upon the incontestable but still observational fact that the basic concepts of our mathematics fit our experience. Mendelssohn then held that metaphysical argumentation proceeds for the most part along the same lines as mathematical proof, with the one difference that in two key cases the connection of the formal system of proof to reality does not have to be made empirically but is also secured on purely concep­ tual grounds. These two cases are the metaphysics of the soul (what Kant would later label "rational psychology") where the Cartesian cog­ ito proves the existence of the soul in a non-empirical way, and the metaphysics of God (or "rational theology"), where Mendelssohn ac­ cepted the ontological argument as proving the existence of God from the mere concept of God. Since in these two paradigmatic parts of phi­ losophy existence claims could be proved without recourse even to the 31 Introduction most secure observation, Mendelssohn judged philosophy to have the potential for even greater certainty than mathematics.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
