Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III serves only to preserve the greatest systematic unity in the empirical use of our reason, in that one derives the object of experience, as it were, from the imagined object of this idea as its ground or cause. Then it is A671 / B699 said, e.g., that the things in the world must be considered as if they had gotten their existence from a highest intelligence. In such a way the idea is only a heuristic and not an ostensive concept; and it shows not how an object is constituted but how, under the guidance of that concept, we ought to seek after the constitution and connection of objects of expe­ rience in general. Now if one can show that although the three kinds of transcendental ideas (psychological, cosmological and theological) a cannot be referred directly to any object corresponding to them and to its determination, and nevertheless that all rules of the empirical use of reason under the presupposition of such an object in the idea lead to systematic unity, always extending the cognition of experience but never going contrary to experience, then it is a necessary maxim of reason to proceed in accordance with such ideas. And this is the transcendental deduction of all the ideas of speculative reason, not as constitutive prin­ ciplesb for the extension of our cognition to more objects than experi­ ence can give, but as regulative principlesc for the systematic unity of the manifold of empirical cognition in general, through which this cog­ nition, within its proper boundaries, is cultivated and corrected d more than could happen without such ideas, through the mere use of the prin­ ciples of understanding.
 
 A672/B700 I will make this clearer. Following the ideas named above as principles, we will first (in psychology) connect all appearances, actions, and e receptivity of our mind to the guiding thread of inner experience as if the mind were a simple substance that (at least in this life) persists in ex­ istence with personal identity, while its states -to which the states of the body belong only as external conditions -are continuously chang­ ing. Then second (in cosmology) we have to pursue the conditions of the inner as well as the outer appearances of nature through an investi­ gation that will nowhere be completed, as if nature were infinite in itself and without a first or supreme member -although, without deny­ ing, outside of all appearances, the merely intelligible primary grounds for them, we may never bring these grounds into connection with ex­ planations of nature, because we are not acquainted with them at all.
 
 Finally and thirdly, (in regard to theology) we have to consider everya The first edition reads "the psychological ... " Principien b , Principien berichtigt; the first edition reads "berechtigt" (justified).
 
 d , Principien 606 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
