But, on the other side, that reason can and must exercise this discipline itself, without allowing any­ thing else to censor it, elevates it and gives it confidence in itself, for the boundaries that it is required to set for its speculative use at the same time limit the sophistical pretensions of every opponent, and thus it can secure against all attacks everything that may still be left to it from its previously exaggerated demands. The greatest and perhaps only utility of all philosophy of pure reason is thus only negative, namely that it does not serve for expansion, as an organon, but rather, as a discipline, serves for the determination of boundaries, and instead of discovering truth it has only the silent merit of guarding against errors.
 
 Nevertheless, there must somewhere be a source of positive cogni­ tions that belong in the domain of pure reason, and that perhaps give A 796/ B 824 occasion for errors only through misunderstanding, but that in fact constitute the goal of the strenuous effort of reason. For to what cause should the unquenchable desire to find a firm footing beyond all bounds of experience otherwise be ascribed? Pure reason has a presen­ timent of objects of great interest to it. It takes the path of mere specu­ lation in order to come closer to these; but they flee before it.
 
 Presumably it may hope for better luck on the only path that still re­ mains to it, namely that of its practical use.
 
 r understand by a canon the sum total of the a priori principles of the correct use of certain cognitive faculties in general. Thus general logic in its analytical part is a canon for understanding and reason in general, but only as far as form is concerned, since it abstracts from all content.
 
 Thus the transcendental analytic was the canon of the pure under­ standing; for it alone is capable of true synthetic a priori cognitions. But where no correct use of a cognitive power is possible there is no canon.
 
 Now according to the proofs that have previously been given, all syn­ thetic cognition of pure reason in its speculative use is entirely impos672 On the ultimate end of pure reason sible.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
