On the transcendental ideas always fruitful in the highest degree and unavoidably necessary in re­ spect of actual actions. In it practical reason even has the causality ac­ tually to bring forth what its concept contains; and hence of such wisdom we cannot likewise say disparagingly: It is only an idea; rather just because it is the idea of a necessary unity of all possible ends, it must serve as a rule, the original and at least limiting condition, for everything practical.
 
 Although we have to say of the transcendental concepts of reason: A329 They are only ideas, we will by no means regard them as superfluous and nugatory. For even if no object can be determined through them, they can still, in a fundamental and unnoticed way, serve the under­ standing as a canon for its extended and self-consistent use, through which it cognizes no more objects than it would cognize through its concepts, yet in this cognition it will be guided better and further. Not to mention the fact that perhaps the ideas make possible a transition B 386 from concepts of nature to the practical, and themselves generate support for the moral ideas and connection with the speculative cognitions of reason. About all this we must expect to be informed in due course.
 
 But given our present aims, we will set aside the practical ideas, and hence consider reason only in its speculative use, and in this even more narrowly, namely only in its transcendental use. Here we must strike out on the same path as we took above in the deduction of the cate­ gories; that is, we must consider the logical form of rational cognition, and see whether in this way reason will not perhaps also be a source of concepts, regarding objectsa in themselves as determined synthetically a priori in respect of one or another function of reason.
 
 Reason, considered as the faculty of a certain logical form of cogni- A330 tion, is the faculty of inferring, i.e., of judging mediately (through the subsumption of a condition of a possible judgment under the condition of something given). The given judgment is the universal rule (major premise, major). The subsumption of the condition of another possible judgment under the condition of the rule is the minor premise (minor).
 
 The actual judgment that expresses the assertion of the rule in the subsumed caseb is the conclusion (conclusio). The rule says something uni- B 387 versal under a certain condition. Now in a case that comes before us the condition of the rule obtains. Thus what is valid universally under that condition is also to be regarded as valid in the case before us (which carries this condition with it). We easily see that reason attains to a cognition through actions of the understanding that constitute a series of conditions. Thus suppose I arrive at the proposition "All bodies are al­ terable" only by beginning with the more remote cognition (in which a Objecte The fourth edition reads "to the subsumed case." b 403 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
