e., the determination of a thing) nearly precludes all instruction. Anything one likes can serve as a logical predicate, even the subject can be predicated of itself; for logic abstracts from every content. But the determination is a predi­ cate, which goes beyond the concept of the subject and enlarges it.
 
 Thus it must not be included in it already.
 
 Being is obviously not a real predicate, i.e., a concept of something that could add to the concept of a thing. It is merely the positing" of a thing or of certain determinations in themselves. In the logical use it is merely the copula of a judgment. The proposition God is omnipotent contains two concepts that have their objects:b God and omnipotence; the little word "is" is not a predicate in it, but only that which posits the predicate in relation to the subject. Now if! take the subject (God) to- A 5991 B 627 gether with all his predicates (among which omnipotence belongs), and say God is, or there is a God, then I add no new predicate toC the concept of God, but only posit the subject in itself with all its predicates, and indeed posit the object in relation to my concept. Both must contain exactly the same, and hence when I think this object as given absolutely (through the expression, "it is"), nothing is thereby added to the concept, which expresses merely its possibility. Thus the actual contains nothing more than the merely possible. A hundred actual dollars do not contain the least bit more than a hundred possible ones. For since the latter signifies the concept and the former its object and its positingf in itself, then, in case the former contained more than the latter, my concept would not express the entire object and thus would not be the suitable concept of it. But in my financial condition there is more with a hundred actual dollars than with the mere concept of them (i.e., their possibility). For with actuality the object is not merely included in my concept analytically, but adds synthetically to my concept (which is a determination of my state); yet the hundred dollars themselves that I am thinking of are not in the least increased through this being outside my concept.
 
 Thus when I think a thing, through whichever and however many A6oo/B628 predicates I like (even in its thoroughgoing determination), not the least bit gets added to the thing when I posit in addition that this thing is. For otherwise what would exist would not be the same as what I had thought in my concept, but more than that, and I could not say that the a Position Objecte b ,. setze ...z u, which could also be translated: "posit ... [in relation] to." Position d 567 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
