I am not, to be sure, of the opinion that excellent and thoughtful men (e.g., Sulzer),14 aware of the weakness of previous proofs, have so often expressed, that one can still hope someday to find self-evident demon足 strations of the two cardinal propositions of our pure reason: there is a God, and there is a future life. Rather, I am certain that this will never A 742/ B 770 happen. For whence will reason derive the ground for such synthetic assertions, which are not related to objects of experience and their inner possibility? But it is also apodictically certain that no human being will ever step forward who could assert the opposite with the least plausibility, let alone assert it dogmatically. For since he could only establish this through pure reason, he would have to undertake to prove that a highest being or the thinking subject in us as pure intelligence is impossible. But whence will he derive the knowledge that would justify him in judging synthetically about things beyond all possible experience? We can therefore be entirely unconcerned that somebody will someday prove the opposite; we therefore do not have to think up scholastic proofs, but can always assume these propositions, which are quite consistent with the speculative interest of our reason in its empirical use and are, moreover, the only means for uniting this with the practical interest. For the opponent (who cannot here be considered a mere critic) we have our liqueta ready, which must unfailingly connon found him, while we do not need to refute his retort, for we always have in reserve the subjective maxims of reason, which he necessarily lacks, A743/B771 and under their protection we can regard all his shadow-boxing with tranquility and indifference.
 
 Thus there is properly no antithetic of pure reason at all. For the only battleground for it would have to be sought in the field of pure theol足 ogy and psychology; but this ground will bear no warrior in full armor and equipped with weapons that are to be feared. He can only step for足 ward with ridicule and boasting, which can be laughed at like child's play. This is a comforting remark, which gives reason courage again; for on what else could it rely, if it, which is called to do away with all errors, were itself ruined, without any hope for peace and tranquil possession?
 
 Everything that nature itself arranges is good for some aim. Even poisons serve to overpower other poisons which are generated in our own humors,b and therefore may not be omitted from a complete col足 lection of cures (medicines). The objections against the suasions and the self-conceit of our purely speculative reason are themselves put a I.e., the verdict "not proved." Siiften, i.e., bodily liquids, or the four humors of premodern medicine.
 
 b 645 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
