Key to the solution of the cosmological dialectic relations (in space and time) according to laws of the unity of experi­ a ence, are called objects. The non-sensible cause of these representa­ tions is entirely unknown to us, and therefore we cannot intuit it as an object;b for such an object would have to be represented neither in space nor in time (as mere conditions of our sensible representation), without which conditions we cannot think any intuition. Meanwhile we can call the merely intelligible cause of appearances in general the tran­ scendental object,' merely so that we may have something correspond­ ing to sensibility as a receptivity. To this transcendental objectd we can ascribe the whole extent and connection of our possible perceptions, B 52 3 and say that it is given in itself prior to all experience. But appearances are, in accordance with it, given not in themselves but only in this ex­ perience, because they are mere representations, which signify a real object only as perceptions, namely when this perception connects up A495 with all others in accordance with the rules of the unity of experience.
 
 Thus one can say: The real things of past time are given in the tran­ scendental object of experience, but for me they are objects and real in past time only insofar as I represent to myself that, in accordance with empirical laws, or in other words, the course of the world, a regressive series of possible perceptions (whether under the guidance of history or in the footsteps of causes and effects) leads to a time-series that has elapsed as the condition of the present time, which is then represented as real only in connection with a possible experience and not in itself; so that all those events which have elapsed from an inconceivable past time prior to my own existence signify nothing but the possibility of prolonging the chain of experience, starting with the present perception, upward to the conditions that determine it in time.
 
 If, accordingly, I represent all together all existing objects of sense in all time and all spaces, I do not posit them as being there in space and time prior to experience, but rather this representation is nothing other B 524 than the thought of a possible experience in its absolute completeness.
 
 In it alone are those objects (which are nothing but mere representations) given. But to say that they exist prior to all my experience meanse A496 only that they are to be encountered in the part of experience to which I, starting with the perception, must first of all progress. The cause of the empirical conditions of this progress, the cause, therefore, of which members of it I might encounter, and also the extent to which I may en­ counter them in the regress, is transcendental, and hence necessarily a Verbaltnisse Object b Object C Object d , bedeutet 513 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
