Allow me to call the position that we assign to a concept either in sen­ sibility or in pure understanding its transcendental place. In the same way, the estimation of this position that pertains to every concept in ac­ cordance with the difference in its use, and guidance for determining this place for all concepts in accordance with rules, would be the tran­ scendental topic, a doctrine that would thoroughly protect against false pretenses of the pure understanding and illusions arising there­ from by always distinguishing to which cognitive power the concepts properly belong. One can call every concept, every title under which many cognitions belong, a logical place. On this is grounded the log­ ical topics of Aristotle, which schoolteachers and orators could use in order to hunt up certain titles of thinking to find that which best fits A269 their current matter and rationalize or garrulously chatter about it with B 325 an appearance of thoroughness. 104 The transcendental topic, on the contrary, contains nothing more than the four titles for all comparison and distinction introduced above, which are distinguished from categories by the fact that what is exhib­ ited through them is not the object in accordance with what constitutes its concept (magnitude, reality), but rather only the comparison of rep­ resentations, in all their manifoldness, which precedes the concepts of things. This comparison, however, first requires a reflection, i.e., a de­ termination of the place where the representations of the things that are compared belong, thus of whether they are thought by the pure under­ standing or given in appearance by sensibility.
 
 The concepts can be compared logically without worrying about where their objectsa belong, whether as noumenab to the understanding or as phenomena" to sensibility. But if we would get to the objects with these concepts, then transcendental reflection about which cognitive power they are objects for, whether for the pure understanding or for sensibility, is necessary first of all. Without this reflection I can make only a very insecure use of these concepts, and there arise allegedly syn- .
 
 thetic principles, which critical reason cannot acknowledge and that are A 2 70/ B 326 grounded solely on a transcendental amphiboly, i.e., a confusion of the pure object of the understandingd with the appearance.
 
 Lacking such a transcendental topic, and thus deceived by the am­ phiboly of the concepts of reflection, the famous Leibniz constructed Objecte a b Not in roman type.
 
 , Not in roman type.
 
 d Verstandesobjects 371 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
