Part II, Division II, Book II, Chapter III

If we try to think of something as the "necessary being," meaning something that must exist no matter what, we can’t really say for sure, "This thing here is that necessary being."

It’s okay to imagine a being that is super powerful and causes everything that happens, just to help us understand why things happen. But to say, "This being definitely has to exist," is not just guessing anymore—it’s acting like we know for sure without proof. If we want to believe something is absolutely necessary, then we need absolute proof for that.

The big question about something beyond our experience is this: either we find a way to understand what absolute necessity means, or we find why a concept needs to be absolutely necessary. If we can do the first, then we should be able to do the second too, because reason only accepts something as absolutely necessary if it has to be that way based on its meaning. But no matter how hard we try, we can’t fully understand or accept this idea.

The idea of something that must exist without any conditions is something our minds can’t really handle. Even the idea of forever (eternity) doesn’t scare us as much as this. Eternity just means something lasts forever, but it doesn’t explain why it lasts. It’s hard to imagine that the most perfect being could just exist from forever to forever and create everything by will alone—and still wonder where it came from. This idea shakes everything we believe, and both the biggest and smallest things seem to float without any real support. Our thinking could just as easily make them disappear.

Many natural forces only show themselves through certain effects, and we can’t fully understand them because we can’t study them enough. The things behind what we see, and why we experience things the way we do, remain unknown to us. Even if the thing itself exists, we don’t get to understand it. But an idea of pure reason shouldn’t be called unknown, because it only needs to exist to help us make sense of everything.

Since this idea isn’t even something we can really think of clearly, it’s not truly unknown either.
