Ch. II. Sec. II tion a to morality; and the necessary connection of the hope of being happy with the unremitting effort to make oneself worthy of happiness that has been adduced cannot be cognized through reason if it is grounded merely in nature, but may be hoped for only if it is at the same time grounded on a highest reason, which commands in accor­ dance with moral laws, as at the same time the cause of nature.
 
 I call the idea of such an intelligence, in which the morally most per­ fect will, combined with the highest blessedness, is the cause of all hap­ piness in the world, insofar as it stands in exact relationb with morality (as the worthiness to be happy), the ideal of the highest good. 29 Thus only in the ideal of the highest original good can pure reason find the ground of the practically necessary connection of both elements of the ASII/B839 highest derived good, namely of an intelligible, i.e., moral world. Now since we must necessarily represent ourselves through reason as be­ longing to such a world, although the senses do not present us with any­ thing except a world of appearances, we must assume the moral world to be a consequence of our conduct in the sensible world; and since the latter does not offer such a connection to us, we must assume the for­ mer to be a world that is future for us. Thus God and a future life are two presuppositions that are not to be separated from the obligation that pure reason imposes on us in accordance with principles' of that very same reason.
 
 Morality in itself constitutes a system, but happiness does not, except insofar as it is distributed precisely in accordance with morality. This, however, is possible only in the intelligible world, under a wise author and regent. Reason sees itself as compelled either to assume such a thing, together with life in such a world, which we must regard as a fu­ ture one, or else to regard the moral laws as empty figments of the brain, since without that presupposition their necessary success, which the same reason connects with them, would have to disappear. Hence everyone also regards the moral laws as commands, which, however, they could not be if they did not connect appropriate consequences with their rule a priori, and thus carry with them promises and threats.
 
 A812/B 840 This, however, they could not do if they did not lie in a necessary being, as the highest good, which alone can make possible such a purposive unity.
 
 Leibniz called the world, insofar as in it one attends only to rational beings and their interconnection in accordance with moral laws under the rule of the highest good, the realm30 of grace, and distinguished it from the realm of nature, where, to be sure, rational beings stand a Verhiiltnisse b Verhiiltnisse , Principien 680 On the ideal of the highest good under moral laws but cannot expect any successes for their conduct ex­ cept in accordance with the course of nature in our sensible worldY Thus to regard ourselves as in the realm of grace, where every hap­ piness awaits us as long as we do not ourselves limit our share of it through the unworthiness to be happy, is a practically necessary idea of reason.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
