Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II necessary as their natural consequence -the abolition of transcendental freedom would also simultaneously eliminate all practical freedom. For the latter presupposes that although something has not happened, it nevertheless ought to have happened, and its cause in appearance was thus not so determining that there is not a causality in our power of choice such that, independently of those natural causes and even op­ posed to their power and influence, it might produce something deter­ mined in the temporal order in accord with empirical laws, and hence begin a series of occurrences entirely from itself.
 
 A 5 3 5 / B 563 Here, then, as is generally found in the conflicts of reason with itself when it ventures beyond the boundaries of possible experience, the problem is really not physiological but transcendental. Hence the question of the possibility of freedom does indeed assail psychology, but since it rests merely on dialectical arguments of pure reason, its solution must be solely the business of transcendental philosophy. Now in ordera to put transcendental philosophy, which cannot decline to provide a sat­ isfying answer here, in a position to give one, I must first seek, through the following remark, to determine more closely its procedure in deal­ ing with this problem.
 
 If appearances were things in themselves, and hence space and time were the forms of things in themselves, then the conditions would al­ ways belong to one and the same series as the conditioned, and from this there would also arise in the present case the antinomy common to all transcendental ideas, that this series must unavoidably turn out to be either too large or too small for the understanding. But the dynamical concepts of reason, with which we are concerned in this and the fol­ lowing number, have the peculiarity that since they do not consider their object as a magnitude but have to do only with its existence, one can thus abstract from the magnitude of the series of conditions, and A 536/ B 564 with them it is merely a matter of the dynamical relation b of condition to conditioned; thus the difficulty we encounter in the question about nature and freedom is only whether freedom is possible anywhere at all, and if it is, whether it can exist together with the universality of the nat­ ural law of causality, hence whether it is a correct disjunctive proposi­ tion that every effect in the world must arise either from nature or freedom, or whether instead both, each in a different relation, might be able to take place simultaneously in one and the same occurrence. The correctness of the principle of the thoroughgoing connection of all oc­ currences in the world of sense according to invariable natural laws is already confirmed as a principle of the transcendental analytic and will suffer violation. Thus the only question is whether, despite this, in rea Fifth edition: "And in order . .." Verhdltnis b 534 Section IX.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
