Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II because this is nothing but the logical requirement of assuming com­ plete premises for a given conclusion, and no time-order is present in the connection of the conditioned with its condition; both are presupposed as given simultaneously. Further, it is likewise natural (in the minor premise) to regard appearances as things in themselves and likewise as objects given to the mere understanding, as was the case in the major premise, where I abstracted from all conditions of intuition under which alone objects can be given. But now in this we have overlooked a re­ markable difference between the concepts. The synthesis of the condi­ tioned with its condition and the whole series of the latter (in the major premise) carries with it no limitation through time and no concept of succession. The empirical synthesis, on the contrary, and the series of conditions in appearance (which are subsumed in the minor premise), is necessarily given successively and is given only in time, one member after another; consequently here I could not presuppose the absolute totality of synthesis and the series represented by it, as I could in the B 529 previous case, because there all members oft he series are given in them­ selves (without time-condition), but here they are possible only through A 501 the successive regress, which is given only through one's actually com­ pleting it.
 
 When such a fallacy has been shown to ground the common argu­ ment (for the cosmological assertions), the demands of both disputing parties could rightfully be dismissed as being based on no well­ grounded title. But that does not put an end to their quarrel to the ex­ tent of winning them over to the view that one or both of them is wrong in what he actually asserts (in the conclusion), even if he does not know how to construct sound arguments a for it. Nothing seems clearer than that between the two, one of whom asserts that the world has a begin­ ning, and the other that it has no beginning but has existed from eter­ nity, one of them has to be right. But if this is so, then because there is equal evidence b on both sides, it is impossible ever to ascertain which side is right, and so the conflict drags on as before, even though the par­ ties have been directed by the court of reason to hold their peace. Thus no means is left for ending the dispute in a well-grounded way and to the satisfaction of both sides, unless through the fact that they can do such a fine job of refuting each other they are finally won over to the view that they are disputing about nothing, and that a certain transcenB 530 dental illusion has portrayed a reality to them where none is present.
 
 A 502 This is the path on which we will now set forth in settling a dispute that cannot be decided by a final judgment.
 
 * * * a Beweisgrini de b Klarheit 516 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
