On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> represented before outer sense, i.e., in space. Third, space is nothing other than a mere representation, hence only what is represented* in it can count as real, and conversely, what is given in it, i.e., represented A375 through perception, is also real in it; for ifi t were not real in space, i.e., immediately given through empirical intuition, then it could not also be invented,a because one cannot just think up the real in intuition a priori.b Every outer perception therefore immediately proves something real in space, or rather is itself the real; to that extent, empirical realism is beyond doubt, i.e., to our outer intuitions there corresponds something real in space. Of course space itself with all its appearances, as repre足 sentations, is only in me; but in this space the real, or the material of all objects of outer intuition is nevertheless really given, independently of all invention; and it is also impossible that in this space anything outside us (in the transcendental sense) should be given, since space itself is nothing apart from our sensibility. Thus the strictest C idealist cannot demand that one prove that the object outside us (in the strictd sense) A376 corresponds to our perception. For if there were such a thing, then it still could not be represented and intuited outside us, because this would presuppose space; and reality in space, as a mere representation, is nothing other than perception itself. The real in outer appearances is thus actual only in perception, and cannot be actual in any other way.
 
 Now cognition of objects can be generated from perceptions, either through a mere play of imagination or by means of experience. And then of course there can arise deceptive representations, to which ob足 jects do not correspond, and where the deception is sometimes to be at足 tributed to a semblance of the imagination (in dreams), sometimes to a false step of judgment (in the case of so-called sense-deceptions). In order to avoid the false illusion here, one proceeds according to the * One must note well this paradoxical but correct proposition, that nothing is A 374 in space except what is represented in it. For space itself is nothing other than representation; consequently, what is in it must be contained in representa- A 375 tion, and nothing at all is in space except insofar as it is really represented in it. A proposition which must of course sound peculiar is that a thing can exist only in the representation of it; but it loses its offensive character here, because the things with which we have to do are not things in themselves but only appearances, i.e., representations.
 
 a erdichtet Note in Kant's copy of the second edition: "Objects of outer senses contain the ground b of time-determination of inner sense, consequently, however, also of inner experience, though not the ground of consciousness, [even if ...J " (the end of the sentence is miss足 ing in the manuscript). (E CLXII, p. 49; 23:39) , strengste strikter d 429 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
