Ch. III is the case with most students and with all of those who never see be­ yond their school and remain students their whole lives. But it is strange that mathematical cognition, however one has learned it, can still count subjectively as rational cognition, and that the difference pre­ sent in the case of philosophical cognition is not present in this case.
 
 The cause of this is that the sources of cognition on which alone the teacher can draw lie nowhere other than in the essential and genuine principles a of reason, and consequently cannot be derived from any­ where else by the student, nor disputed in any way, precisely because reason is here used in concreto though nevertheless a priori, founded, that is, in pure and therefore error-free intuition, and excludes all deception and error.4" Among all rational sciences (a priori), therefore, only math­ ematics can be learned, never philosophy (except historically); rather, as far as reason is concerned, we can at best only learn to philosophize.
 
 A838/B866 Now the system of all philosophical cognition is philosophy. One must take this objectively if one understands by it the archetype for the assessmentb of all attempts to philosophize, which should serve to as­ sess" each subjective philosophy, the structure of which is often so man­ ifold and variable. In this way philosophy is a mere idea of a possible science, which is nowhere given in concreto, but which one seeks to ap­ proach in various ways until the only footpath, much overgrown by sen­ sibility, is discovered, and the hitherto unsuccessful ectype, so far as it has been granted to humans, is made equal to the archetype. Until then one cannot learn any philosophy; for where is it, who has possession of it, and by what can it be recognized? One can only learn to philoso­ phize, i.e., to exercise the talent of reason in prosecuting its general principlesd in certain experiments that come to hand, but always with the reservation of the right of reason to investigate the sources of these principles themselves and to confirm or reject them.43 Until now, however, the concept of philosophye has been only a scholastic concept,! namely that of a system of cognition that is sought only as a science without having as its end anything more than the sys­ tematic unity of this knowledge, thus the logical perfection of cogni­ tion. But there is also a cosmopolitan conceptg (conceptus cosmicus) that has always grounded this term, especially when it is, as it were, personA839/B867 ified and represented as an archetype in the ideal of the philosopher.
 
 From this point of view philosophy is the science of the relation of all a Principien b Beurtheilung C beurtheilen d Principien , Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Idealist, idea" (E CLXXIXI , p. 54; 23:50).
 
 f Schulbegriff g Weltbegriff 694 The architectonic of pure reason cognition to the essential ends of human reason (teleologia rationis hu­ manae),a and the philosopher is not an artist of reason but the legislator of human reason.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
