For the third and fourth antinomies, which he calls "dynamical" because they have to do with the causation of the world and its events, Kant proposes a different solution. Here he argues that both sides may be true, if the denial of a free cause or necessary being is restricted to the natural and sensible world and their affirmation is taken to refer to what might exist in a noumenal or supersensible world of things in themselves. Just as his thinking about the antinomies gen­ erally shaped his thinking about the structure and outcome of the en­ tire "Transcendental Dialectic," so Kant's resolution of the third antinomy will go on to play an important role in his moral philosophy and in his ultimate account of the relation between theoretical and moral philosophy.
 
 The "Ideal of Pure Reason." Rational theology, the third and last of the metaphysical pseudo-sciences, is taken up by Kant in the final chapter of the "Transcendental Dialectic" (A567-642/B 595-67°). If an "idea" is a pure concept generated by reason, then an "ideal" is the con­ cept of an individual thing as exemplifying an idea of pure reason. It would not be natural to think of the idea of the soul, for example, as giv­ ing rise to an ideal, because we naturally think there are many souls; but it is natural (at least in the Judaeo-Christian tradition) to think of the idea of God as the idea of a single thing, and thus the idea of God is the ideal of pure reason. Kant argues for the inevitability of the idea of God as an ens realissimum, or supreme individual thing possessing all realities or perfections and thus also grounding all the possibilities realized by other particular things. Much of Kant's argument here makes use of a line of thought he developed nearly twenty years before the publication of the Critique in The Only Possible Ground of Prooff or a Demonstration of the Existence of God (1763)' But now Kant subjects to withering criticism his own earlier attempt to prove the existence of God as such an ens re­ alissimum well as the other traditional attempts to prove the existence 3S of God, which were already criticized in Kant's earliest philosophical writing, the New Elucidation of the First Principles of Metaphysical Cogni­ tion (1755) as well as in The Only Possible Ground.
 
 Kant organizes the traditional proofs of the existence of God (with­ out attempting to explain why there should only be these three) into the ontological proof, based solely on the concept of God, the cosmological proof, based on the sheer fact of the existence of a world, and the physico-theological proof, based on the particular constitution of the ac­ tual world, especially its alleged exhibition of purposive design. The first of these is Kant's representation of the proof favored by St.
 
 Anselm and revived by Descartes; the second is his name for an argu­ ment from contingent existents to their necessary ground favored by Wolff and his followers; and the third is what Kant calls the argument 17 Introduction from design favored by so many thinkers of the early Enlightenment, especially in Britain (where Hume had already subjected it to tren­ chant criticism in his Dialogues concerning Natural Religion, which, be­ cause of the delay of their translation into German, Kant had not yet seen at the time he published the Critique).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
