Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. <A> jectsa may be given to us, still it does not seem enough to us merely to have expounded what is true, but also that which one has desired to know.b If, therefore, through this critical investigation we learn nothing more than what we should in any case have practiced in the merely em­ pirical use of the understanding, even without such subtle inquiry, then it would seem the advantage that one will draw from it would hardly be worth the expense and preparation. Now to this, to be sure, one can reply that no curiosity is more disadvantageous to the expansion of our B 297 knowledge than that which would always know its utility in advance, before one has entered into the investigations, and before one could have the least concept of this utility even if it were placed before one's eyes. But there is one advantage, which can be made both comprehenA238 sible and interesting to even the dullest and most reluctant student of such transcendental investigation, namely this: That the understanding occupied merely with its empirical use, which does not reflect on the sources of its own cognition, may get along very well, but cannot ac­ complish one thing, namely, determining for itself the boundaries of its use and knowing what may lie within and what without its whole sphere; for to this end the deep inquiries that we have undertaken are requisite.
 
 But if the understanding cannot distinguish whether certain questions lie within its horizon or not, then it is never sure of its claims and its possession, but must always reckon on many embarrassing corrections when it continually oversteps the boundaries of its territory (as is un­ avoidable) and loses itself in delusion and deceptions.
 
 That the understanding can therefore make only empirical use of all its priori principles, indeed of all its concepts, but never transcenden­ a tal use, is a proposition that, if it can be recognizedd with conviction, B 298 points to important consequences.' The transcendental use of a concept in any sort of principle consists in its being related to things in general and in themselves/ its empirical use, however, in its being related A239 merely to appearances, i.e., objects of a possible experience. But that it is only the latter that can ever take place is evident from the follow­ ing. For every concept there is requisite, first, the logical form of a con­ cept (of thinking) in general, and then, second, the possibility of giving it an object to which it is to be related. Without tllis latter it has no Objecte a Emended in Kant's copy of the first edition to: "what is true, as little as it may be, but b also to expand his cognition" (E CXVI, p. 40; 23:47).
 
 , Erkenntnis erkannt d , Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "against enthusiasm" (E CXVII, p. 40; 23:47).
 
 f Kant's copy of the first edition changes "things in general and in themselves" t-o "objects, which are not given to us in an intuition, thus are not sensible objects" (E CXVII, p. 40; 23:47)· 340 Chapter III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
