Instead, Kant raises a completely different question: "What is the ground of the relation of that in us which we call representation to the object?"IlI This is a puzzle precisely in the case of the relationship of pure concepts of the understanding to objects presented by sensible ex­ perience. It is not a puzzle in the case of entirely empirical representa­ tions, which are merely caused by their external objects, nor in the case of divine archetypes (or, we may add, human intentions), where the ob­ ject is merely caused by the antecedent representation. But, Kant now holds, "the pure concepts of the understanding . . . t hough they must have their origin in the nature of the soul" because they are formulated by us and known "completely a priori," must yet apply to objects of sen­ sible experience even though they are neither caused by nor cause the latter. II2 Kant now admits that he had completely passed over this ques­ tion in the inaugural dissertation because he there failed to realize that our pure concepts as well as forms of intuition must be applied to the same objects, the objects of our experience. Thus what must now be ex­ plained is "the possibility of such concepts, with which . . . e xperience must be in exact agreement and which nevertheless are independent of experience." The idea that the pure concepts of the understanding pro­ vide knowledge of entities other than the spatiotemporal objects of sen­ sibility suddenly disappears.
 
 Kant did not describe how the possibility and necessity of the agree­ ment of experience with pure concepts of the understanding is to be explained, beyond suggesting that a systematic classification of these "concepts belonging to complete pure reason" or "categories" can be reached by "following a few fundamental laws of the understanding." In spite of this obscurity, Kant was confident that he would be ready to publish the work, which he now for the first time entitled a Critique of Pure Reason, in only three months!"3 In fact, it would be almost nine years before the work with that title appeared. Much of this delay was due to the fact that Kant did not yet have a clear idea of why the cate­ gories necessarily apply to objects of experience.
 
 As Kant thinks further about this problem, a problem about time will play a key role, though not the problem about the reality of time but rather a problem about how we can make determinate judgments about the order of objective states of affairs or even our own experiences in time. This problem will become the focus of Kant's attention in the sev­ eral years following the letter to Herz, especially in 1774-75, and will remain central in the Critique.
 
 Kant's next report on his progress is in another letter to Herz, this one written toward the end of 1773. II4 Kant writes that he will not "be 48 Introduction seduced by any author's itch into seeking fame," suggests that he is still working on "a principle that will completely solve what has hitherto been a riddle and that will bring the misleading qualities of the self­ alienating understanding under certain and easily applied rules," but nevertheless promises that he will have his book, which he continues to call "a critique of pure reason," ready by the following Easter or shortly after,'IS that is, in the spring of 1774.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
