It would be very boastful to call oneself a philosopher in this senseb and to pretend to have equaled the archetype, which lies only in the idea.
 
 The mathematician, the naturalist, the logician are only artists of rea­ son, however eminent the former may be in rational cognitions and however much progress the latter may have made in philosophical cog­ nition. There is still a teacher in the ideal, who controls all of these and uses them as tools to advance the essential ends of human reason. Him alone we must call the philosopher; however, since he himself is still found nowhere, although the idea of his legislation is found in every human reason, we will confine ourselves to the latter and determine more precisely what philosophy, in accordance with this cosmopolitan concept,* prescribes for systematic unity from the standpoint of ends. A840/ B 868 Essential ends are on this account not yet the highest, of which (in the complete systematic unity of reason) there can be only a single one.
 
 Hence they are either the final end,c or subalternate ends, which neces­ sarily belong to the former as means. The former is nothing other than the entire vocation d of human beings, and the philosophy of it is called moral philosophy. On account of the preeminence which moral philos­ ophy had over all other applications of reason, the ancients understood by the name of "philosopher" first and foremost the moralist, and even the outer appearance of self-control through reason still suffices today for calling someone a philosopher after a certain analogy, in spite of his limited knowledge.
 
 Now the legislation of human reason (philosophy) has two objects, nature and freedom, and thus contains the natural law as well as the moral law, initially in two separate systems but ultimately in a single philosophical system. The philosophy of nature pertains to everything that is; that of morals only to that which should be.
 
 All philosophy, however, is either cognition from pure reason or ra­ tional cognition from empirical principles.e The former is called pure philosophy, the latter empirical.
 
 * A cosmopolitan concept here means one that concerns that which necessar- A839/B 867 ily interests everyone; hence I determine the aim of a science in accordance with scholastic concepts if it is regarded only as one of the skills for certain arbitrary ends.
 
 a teleology of human reason b Bedeutung , Endzweck d Bestimmung , Principien 695 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
