Of these, the Heidemann edition appears closest to the original editions, though it does modernize spelling. Finally, we have checked the translation against facsimiles of the original editions.
 
 Here we can add a word about our choice of typography. The origi­ nal editions were set primarily in Fraktur (gothic type). Latin words, in­ cluding such frequently used words as "a priori" and "a posteriori" as well as "phenomena" and "noumena," which Kant did not regard as natural­ ized into German, were set in roman type. Emphasis was indicated, not by the modern English method of italics nor by the modern German method of Sperrdruck (spaced type), but by the use of larger and thicker Fraktur type than is used elsewhere (boldface or Fettdruck). To try to recreate the appearance of Kant's pages, we have therefore used bold type for emphasis and italics for the foreign words that Kant had printed in roman type. In the original, a range of Fettdruck sizes was used, which makes it sometimes quite easy and sometimes very difficult to tell whether a word is being emphasized -this is a source of dis­ agreement in modern editions about which words should be empha­ sized. We have not tried to reproduce this range of type sizes. We should also note that Kant sometimes but not always uses Fettdruck to indicate that a word or sentence is being mentioned rather than used.
 
 Where he does so, we use bold type; where he does not, we have intro­ duced quotation marks.
 
 Now for a word about our use of previous English translations. We have followed Kemp Smith in many of his choices for translation of Kant's technical terminology, for the simple reason that Kemp Smith usually (but not always) adopted the wise procedure of letting Kant's own Latin equivalents for his German technical terms determine the English translation. (No doubt many of Kemp Smith's turns of phrase also reverberated in our minds after years of using his translation.) Nevertheless, the present work is by no means a revision of Kemp Smith, and it departs from his translation systematically and consis­ tently throughout on many points. We have always worked directly from German texts, consulting Kemp Smith from time to time but also consulting the earlier English translations as well. Of these, we found that by Friedrich Max Muller (1881) more helpful than that by J. M. D.
 
 Meikeljohn (1855). Of surprising help was a full translation of only the second edition done by Francis Haywood (second edition, 1848). This is the earliest English translation of the Critique we have been able to discover, and often proved helpful because, like us, Haywood clearly made literalness in translation his primary objective.
 
 76 Introduction Bibliography In this bibliography, we list the German editions of the text of the Critique of Pure Reason that we have consulted, the earlier English trans­ lations we have consulted, and a selection of scholarly works including discussion of the genesis and text of the Critique.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
