But since in their use it is sometimes easier to show the em­ piricallimitation in judgments than the contingency in them, or is often more plausible to show the unrestricted universality that we ascribe to a judgment than its necessity, it is advisable to employ separately these two criteria, each of which is in itself infallible. 12 Now it is easy to show that in human cognition there actually are such necessary and in the strictest sense universal, thus pure priori a judgments. If one wants an example from the sciences, one need only look at all the propositions of mathematics; if one would have one B 5 from the commonest use of the understanding, the proposition that every alteration must have a cause will do; indeed in the latter the very concept of a cause so obviously contains the concept of a necessity of connection with an effect and a strict universality of rule that it would be entirely lost if one sought, as Hume did, to derive it from a frequent association of that which happens with that which precedes and a habit (thus a merely subjective necessity) of connecting representations aris­ ing from that association.13 Even without requiring such examples for the proof of the reality of pure priori principles in our cognition, one a could establish their indispensability for the possibility of experience itself, thus establish it priori. For where would experience itself get II its certainty if all rules in accordance with which it proceeds were themselves in turn always empirical, thus contingent?; hence one a could hardly allow these to count as first principles. Yet here we can content ourselves with having displayed the pure use of our cognitive faculty as a fact together with its indication.b Not merely in judgments, however, but even in concepts is an origin of some of them revealed a priori. Gradually remove from your experiential concept of a body everything that is empirical in it -the color, the hardness or softness, the weight, even the impenetrability -there still remains the space that was occupied by the body (which has now entirely disappeared), B6 and you cannot leave that out. Likewise, if you remove from your em­ pirical concept of every object,' whether corporeal or incorporeal, all those properties of which experience teaches you, you could still not take from it that by means of which you think of it as a substance or as dependent on a substance (even though this concept contains more determination than that of an object! in general). Thus, convinced by the necessity with which this concept presses itself on you, you must concede that it has its seat in your faculty of cognition priori.
 
 a " Question mark not in original.
 
 Kennzeichen, i.e., sign.
 
 b , Objects Objects d 138 Introduction <B> lILa Philosophy needs a science that determines the possibility, the principles,b and the domain of all cognitions a priori.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
