a For one part of these cognitions, the mathematical, has long been reli­ able, and thereby gives rise to a favorable expectation about others as well, although these may be of an entirely different nature. Further­ more, if one is beyond the circle of experience, then one is sure of not being refutedb through experience. The charm in expanding one's cog­ nitions is so great that one can be stopped in one's progress only by bumping into a clear contradiction. This, however, one can avoid if one makes his inventions carefully, even though they are not thereby inven­ tions any the less. Mathematics gives us a splendid example of how far we can go with priori cognition independently of experience. Now it a is occupied, to be sure, with objects and cognitions only so far as these can be exhibited in intuitions. This circumstance, however, is easily overlooked, since the intuition in question can itself be given priori, a and thus can hardly be distinguished from a mere pure concept.
 
 A5 CaptivatedC by such a proof of the power of reason, the drive for ex­ pansion sees no bounds. The light dove, in free flight cutting through the air the resistance of which it feels, could get the idead that it could B 9 do even better in airless space. Likewise, Plato abandoned the world of the senses because it set such narrow limitse for the understanding, and dared to go beyond it on the wings of the ideas, in the empty space of pure understanding. He did not notice that he made no headway by his efforts, for he had no resistance, no support, as it were, by which he could stiffen himself, and to which he could apply his powers in order to put his understanding into motion. It is, however, a customary fate of human reason in speculation to finish its edifice as early as possible and only then to investigate whether the ground has been adequately prepared for it. But at that point all sorts of excuses will be sought to as­ sure us of its sturdiness or also, even better! to refuse such a late and dangerous examination. What keeps us free of all worry and suspicion during the construction, however, and flatters us with apparent thor­ oughness, is this. A great part, perhaps the greatest part, of the business of our reason consists in ly of the concepts that we already have of ana ses objects. This affords us a multitude of cognitions that, although they are nothing more than illuminations or clarifications of that which is alA6 ready thought in our concepts (though still in a confused way), are, at least as far as their form is concerned, treasured as if they were new ina The second edition reads "lange" instead of "lange Zeit." The second edition reads "widerlegt" instead of "widersprochen." b , The second edition reads "eingenommen" instead of "aufgemuntert." Vorstellllng d , The second edition reads "so enge Schranken setzt" instead of "so vielfilitige Hindernises legt." f The second edition inserts the words "allch" and "lieber gar." 140 Introduction <B> sights, though they do not extend the concepts that we have in either matter or content, but only set them apart from each other.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
