Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II The Antinomy of Pure Reason Section Eight The regulative principlea of pure reason in regard to the cosmological ideas.
 
 Since through the cosmological principle of totality no maximum in the series of conditions in a world of sense, as a thing in itself, is given, but rather this maximum can merely be given as a problemb in the regress of this series, the principle of pure reason we are thinking of retains its genuine validity only in a corrected significance not indeed as an axiom for thinking the totality in the objectd as real, but as a probleme for the understanding, thus for the subject in initiating and continuing, in accordance with the completeness of the idea, the regress in the se­ ries of conditions for a given conditioned. For in sensibility, i.e., in space and time, every condition to which we can attain in the exposition of given appearances is in turn conditioned, because these appearances are not objects in themselves in which the absolutely unconditioned might possibly occur, but only empirical representations, which must always find in intuition their condition, which determines them as regards space or time. Thus the principle of reason is only a rule, prescribing a A 509/ B 537 regress in the series of conditions for given appearances, in which regress it is never allowed to stop with an absolutely unconditioned.
 
 Thus it is not a principle! of the possibility of experience and of the empirical cognition of objects of sense, hence not a principle of the un­ derstanding, for every experience is enclosed within its boundaries (con­ forming to the intuition in which it is given); nor is it a constitutive principleg of reason for extending the concept of the world of sense beyond all possible experience; rather it is a principle of the greatest possible continuation and extension of experience, in accordance with which no empirical boundary would hold as an absolute boundary; thus it is a principleh of reason which, as a rule, postulates what should be ef­ fectedi by us in the regress, but does not anticipate what is given in it­ self in the objectj prior to any regress. Hence I call it a regulative a Princip b aufgegeben , Bedeutung d Object , Problem f Principium Princip g Principium h ; geschehen j Object 520 Section VIII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
