Introductiona,b AI 1.
 
 The idea of transcendental philosophy.
 
 Experience is without doubt the first product that our understanding brings forth as it works on the raw material of sensible sensations. 1 It is for this very reason the first teaching, and in its progress it is so inex­ haustible in new instruction that the chain of life in all future genera­ tions will never have any lack of new information that can be gathered on this terrain. Nevertheless it is far from the only field to which our understanding can be restricted. It tells us, to be sure, what is, but never that it must necessarily be thus and not otherwise.c For that very reason it gives us no true universality, and reason, which is so desirous of this kind of cognitions, is more stimulated than satisfied by it. Now such A 2 universal cognitions, which at the same time have the character of inner necessity, must be clear and certain for themselves, independently of ex­ perience; hence one calls them priori cognitions:2 whereas that which a is merely borrowed from experience is, as it is put, cognized only pos­ a teriori, or empirically) a We first present the introduction as it appeared in the first edition, followed by the re­ vised version that appeared in the second edition. Considerable changes were made in the latter, including some deletions, major additions, and occasional alterations within the passages that were repeated. We will use notes and references to the marginal pag­ ination to show what changes were made from the first to the second editions. The fol­ lowing two paragraphs in the first edition were replaced with the first two numbered sections of the second.
 
 b In his copy of the first edition, Kant made the following two notes: "1. On the possibility of a critique of pure reason.
 
 On its necessity (not from other sciences).
 
 2.
 
 3. On its division.
 
 4- On its purpose, the science of all principles [Principien] of pure reason. (Practi­ cal)" (E I, p. 12).
 
 "That reason has its boundaries with regard to its priori principles [Principien], con­ a cerning both degree and scope.
 
 Division of metaphysics into metaphysics of nature and of morals" (E II, p. ) 12 .
 
 , The following note is added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "We cannot infer to any necessity a posteriori if we do not already have a rule a priori.
 
 E.g., 'If many cases are identical, there must be something that makes this agreement necessary' presupposes the priori proposition that everything contingent has a cause a that determines its concept a priori." (E IV, p. 14) 127 Introduction <A> Now what is especially remarkable is that even among our experi­ ences cognitions are mixed in that must have their origin priori and a that perhaps serve only to establish connection among our represen­ tations of the senses.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
