Grounds of the possibility of experience <A> neither belongs itself within the concept of possible experience nor consists of elements of a possible experience. For it would then have no content, since no intuition would correspond to it though intuitions in general, through which objects can be given to us, constitute the field or the entire object of possible experience. An priori concept that was a not relateda to the latter would be only the logical form for a concept, but not the concept itself through which something would be thought.
 
 If there are pure priori concepts, therefore, they can certainly con­ a tain nothing empirical; they must nevertheless be strictly priori condi­ a tions for a possible experience, as that alone on which its objective reality can rest.
 
 Hence if one wants to know how pure concepts of the understanding are possible, one must inquire what are the priori conditions on which A96 a the possibility of experience depends and that ground it even if one ab­ stracts from everything empirical in the appearances. A concept that ex­ presses this formal and objective condition of experience universally and sufficiently would be called a pure concept of the understanding.
 
 Once I have pure concepts of the understanding, I can also think up objects that are perhaps impossible, or that are perhaps possible in themselves but cannot be given in any experience since in the connection of their concepts something may be omitted that yet necessarily belongs to the condition of a possible experience (the concept of a spirit), or perhaps pure concepts of the understanding will be extended further than experience can grasp (the concept of God). But the elements for all priori cognitions, even for arbitrary and absurd fantasies, cannot ina deed be borrowed from experience (for then they would not be priori a cognitions), but must always contain the pure priori conditions of a a possible experience and of an object of it, for otherwise not only would nothing at all be thought through them, but also without data they would not even be able to arise in thinking at all.
 
 Now these concepts, which contain priori the pure thinking in every a experience, we find in the categories, and it is already a sufficient de­ duction of them and justification of their objective validity if we can A97 prove that by means of them alone an object can be thought. But since in such a thought there is more at work than the single faculty of thinking, namely the understanding, and the understanding itself, as a faculty of cognition that is to be related to objects,b also requires an elucidation of the possibility of this relation, we must first assess not the empirical but the transcendental constitution of the subjective sources that comprise the priori foundations for the possibility of experience.
 
 a If every individual representation were entirely foreign to the other, as a beziige b Objecte 227 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
