On the proofs of the existence of highest being a cend to it and no ground for going still further beyond it. Therefore even through the blindest polytheism in all peoples we see shimmering a few sparks of monotheism, to which they have been led not by reflec­ tion and deep speculation, but only in accordance with a natural course of common understanding becoming gradually more intelligible.
 
 There are only three kinds of proof for the existence of God possible from speculative reason.
 
 All paths on which one may set forth with this aim either begin from determinate experience and the special constitution of our world of sense known through it, and ascend from that by means of laws of a causality to the highest cause outside the world; or else they are empir­ ically grounded on an experience that is only indeterminate, i.e., on some existence; or, finally, they abstract from all experience and infer the existence of a highest cause entirely priori from mere concepts.
 
 a The first proof is the physico-theological, the second the cosmolog- A59I/B619 ical, and the third the ontological proof. There are no more of them, and there also cannot be any more.
 
 r will establish that reason accomplishes just as little on the one path (the empirical) as on the other (the transcendental), and that it spreads its wings in vain when seeking to rise above the world of sense through the mere might of speculation. As to the order in which these species of proof have to be presented for examination, however, it will be just the reverse of that taken by reason in gradually unfolding itself, and in which we have first placed them. For it will be shown that although ex­ perience has given the occasion for them, it is nevertheless merely the transcendental concept of reason that it has set forth for itself that di­ rects these strivings and holds up the target in all such attempts. Thus I will begin by examining the transcendental proof, and later see what the addition of the empirical can do to increase the force of its proof.
 
 Chapter Three A 592/ B 620 Section Four On the impossibility of an ontological proof of God's existence.97 From the foregoing one easily sees that the concept of an absolutely necessary being is a pure concept of reason, i.e., a mere idea, the objec­ tive reality of which is far from being proved by the fact that reason needs it, since this only points to a certain though unattainable com­ pleteness, and properly serves more to set boundaries to the undera erkannt 563 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
