Critique of all speculative theology of the manifoldness of species; for in the first case the understanding thinks much under its concepts, while in the second it thinks all the more in them. This expresses itself in the very different ways of think- A6S 5 I B 683 ing among students of nature; some of whom (who are chiefly speculative) are hostile to differences in kind, while others (chiefly empirical minds) constantly seek to split nature into so much manifoldness that one would almost have to give up the hope of judging its appearances according to general principles.a This latter way of thinking is also obviously grounded on a logical principleb that has as its aim the systematic completeness of all cogni­ tions, if, starting with the genus, I descend to whatever manifold may be contained under it, and thus in this way seek to secure extension for the system, just as in the first case I seek to secure simplicity by ascending to the genus. For from the sphere of the concept signifying a genus it can no more be seen how far its division will go than it can be seen from space how far division will go in the matter that fills it. Hence every genus requires different species, and these subspecies, and since none of the latter once again is ever without a sphere, (a domain as a conceptus communis),' reason demands in its entire extension that no species be re­ garded as in itself the lowest; for since each species is always a concept that contains within itself only what is common to different things, this concept cannot be thoroughly determined, hence it cannot be related to A6S6/B684 an individual, consequently, it must at every time contain other concepts, i.e., subspecies, under itself. This law of specification could be expressed thus: entium varietates non temere esse minuendas.
 
 d But it is easy to see that even this logical law would be without sense or application if it were not grounded on a transcendental law of spec­ ification, which plainly does not demand an actual infinity in regard to the varieties of things that can become our objects -for the logical principle asserting the indeterminacy of the logical sphere in regard to possible division would give no occasion for that; but it does impose on the understanding the demand to seek under every species that comes before us for subspecies, and for every variety smaller varieties.
 
 For if there were no lower concepts, then there would also be no higher ones. Now the understanding cognizes everything only through con­ cepts; consequently, however far it goes in its divisions, it never cogPrincipien a b Princip ,. common concept d "The varieties of entities are not to be diminished rashly." Clearly this is Kant's attempt to formulate a counter-principle to the principle of parsimony or "law of genera": entia praeter necessitatem non esse multiplicanda (Entities are not to be multiplied without ne­ cessity). See A6SZ/B680 and endnote rr6.
 
 , Princip 597 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
