On the empirical use of the regulative principle From this there also follows quite naturally the second application, to A 5 2 5 1 B 553 an external appearance enclosed within its boundaries (a body). Its division is grounded on the divisibility of space, which constitutes the possibility of the body as an extended whole. The latter is thus divisible to infinity, without, however, therefore consisting of infinitely many parts.
 
 To be sure, it appears that since a body has to be represented as a sub­ stance in space, it is to be distinguished from a space as far as the law of the divisibi]jty of space is concerned; for one can in any case concede that the decomposition of the latter could never do away with all com­ position, since then every space, having nothing else that is self-subsis­ tent, would cease to be (which is impossible); yet it does not seem to be compatible with the concept of a substance -which is really supposed to be the subject of all composition, and has to remain in its elements even if its connection in space, by which it constitutes a body, were re­ moved -that if all composition of matter were removed in thought, then nothing at all would remain. Yet with that which is called sub­ stance in appearance things are not as they would be with a thing in it­ self which one thought through pure concepts of the understanding.
 
 The former is not an absolute subject, but only a persisting image of sensibility, and it is nothing but intuition, in which nothing uncondi- 5 261 B 554 A tioned is to be encountered anywhere.
 
 But now although this rule of progress to infinity applies without any doubt to the subdivision of an appearance as a mere filling of space, it cannot hold if we want to stretch it to cover the multiplicity of parts al­ ready detached with certainty in a given whole, constituting thereby a quantum discretum.a,n To assume that in every whole that is articulated into membersb (organized), every part is once again articulated, and that in such a way, by dismantling the parts to infinity, one always en­ counters new complex partsC -in a word, to assume that the whole is ar­ ticulated to infinity -this is something that cannot be thought at all, even though the parts of matter, reached by its decomposition to infin­ ity, could be articulated. For the infinity of the division of a given ap­ pearance in space is grounded solely on the fact that through this infinity merely its divisibility, i.e., a multiplicity of parts, which is in it­ self absolutely indeterminate, is given, but the parts themselves are given and determined only through the subdivision -in short, on the fact that the whole is not in itself already divided up. Hence the division can determine a multiplicity as far as one wants to proceed in the regress of the division. In the case of an organic body articulated to infinity, on the contrary, the whole is represented through this very con- A527/B555 a discrete quantity b gegliedert , Kunstteile 529 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
