A. Pickard-Cambridge, in The Complete Works of Aristotle, ed. Jonathan Barnes [Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984], vol. i, p. 167). In the words ofW. D. Ross, the object of the Topics "is to study the dialecti­ cal syllogism," where "The dialectical syllogism is distinguished from the scientific by the fact that its premises are not true and immediate but are merely probable, i.e., such as commend themselves to all men, to most men, or to wise men" (Aristotle, fifth edition, revised [London: Methuen, 1949], p. 56). Kant seems to be suggesting that the Topics was used to sug­ gest arguments that would appear credible because of their form without regard to the plausibility of their premises at all.
 
 105 Presumably Kant here has in mind Locke's claim that sensation and reflection are the two sources of all our ideas (Essay concerning Human Understanding, bk. II, ch. i, §§ 3-4), and is understanding Locke's reflec­ tion to be reflection on ideas of sensation only. This would be a misun­ derstanding of Locke, since Locke says that we can get simple ideas from reflection on the "operations of our own Mind," a doctrine which is ac­ tually a precursor to Kant's view that the laws of our own intuition and thinking furnish the forms of knowledge to be added to the empirical contents furnished by sensation, although of course Locke did not go very far in developing this doctrine; in particular, he did not see that mathematics and logic could be used as sources of information about the operations of the mind.
 
 106 See Negative Magnitudes, 2:176-7; in Theoretical Philosophy, I755-I770, pp.216-17· 107 Here Kant is referring to Leibniz's doctrine that all the properties of things are perfections in virtue of which they have a claim to existence, with those that actually exist being those that have the most perfection and thus comprise the most perfect world; on this account, there are no actually negative properties, but only limitations to the positive perfec­ tions of things (see, e.g., The Principles of Nature and Grace, §§ 9-10). This was a doctrine with which Kant had been arguing since the essay on Negative Magnitudes; see especially its section 3, 2:189-93; in Theoretical Philosophy, I755-I770, pp. 227-30.
 
 108 Here Kant is alluding to Leibniz's emendation of Descartes's ontological argument, where Leibniz argued that the latter is sound as long as it is preceded by a proof that the concept of God is internally non­ contradictory, a proof easily supplied since the concept of an all-perfect being contains nothing but positive determinations which cannot conflict with each other (see the third paragraph of Meditations on Knowledge, Truth and Ideas, originally published in 1684, as well as many later expo­ sitions of the claim).
 
 109 For some of the many statements of this doctrine with which Kant would have been familiar, see A New System of Nature (1695) (in Ariew and Garber, eds., Philosophical Essays, pp. 143-4); Principles of Nature and Grace, §§ I2-13; and Monadology, §§ 56-9.
 
 I 10 See Leibniz-Clarke Correspondence, Leibniz's Third Letter, § 4, and -Leib­ niz's Fifth Letter, §§ 29, 33.
 
 734 Notes to pages 375-384 III This is a misquotation from the poem "Die Falschheit menschlicher Tu­ genden" by Viktor Albrecht von Haller, Gedichte (Bern, 1732); Haller's lines are: Ins Innere der Natur dringt kein erschaffener Geist.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
