Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II I will call the synthesis of a series on the side of the conditions, thus proceeding from the condition proximate to the given appearance to­ ward the more remote conditions, the regressive synthesis, and the synthesis proceeding on the side of the conditioned, from its proximate consequence to the more remote ones, the progressive synthesis. The first proceeds in antecedienta, a the second in consequentia. b Thus the cos­ mological ideas are concerned with the totality of the regressive syn­ thesis, and go in antecedentia, not in consequentia. If this latter happens, then that is an arbitrary and not a necessary problem of pure reason, be­ cause for the complete comprehensibility of what is given in appearance we need its grounds but not its consequences.
 
 Now in order to set up a table of ideas according to the table of cat­ egories, we first take the two original quanta of all intuition, space and time. Time is in itself a series (and the formal condition of all series), and hence in it, in regard to a given present, the antecedentia are to be distinguished a priori as conditions (the past) from the consequentiaC (the future). Consequently, the transcendental idea of an absolute totality of the series of conditions for a given conditioned applies only to all past time. According to the idea of reason, the whole elapsed past time is thought of as given necessarily as the condition for the given moment.
 
 But as for space, in it there is no difference between progress and regress, because it constitutes an aggregate, but not a series, since all its parts exist simultaneously. I could regard the present point in time only as conditioned in regard to past time but never as its condition, be­ cause this moment first arises only through the time that has passed (or rather through the passing of the preceding time). But since the parts of space are not subordinated to one another but are coordinated with one another, one part is not the condition of the possibility of another, and space, unlike time, does not in itself constitute a series. Yet the syn­ thesis of the manifold parts of space, through which we apprehend it, is nevertheless successive, and thus occurs in time and contains a series.48 And since in this series of aggregated spaces of a given space (e.g., the feet in a rod), the further spaces, starting with a given one, are each thought of as the condition of the boundaries of the previous ones, the measurement of a space is to be regarded as a synthesis of a series of conditions for a given conditioned; only the side of the conditions is not in itself distinguished from the side lying beyond the conditioned, consequently regressus and progressus in space appear to be one and the same.49 Nonetheless, because a part of space is not given through ana toward antecedents b toward consequents , In Kant's text, this word is given in the ablative (consequentibus); when Kant uses Latin nouns he declines them as if he were writing the whole context in Latin.
 
 462 Section L System of cosmological ideas other part but is only bounded by it, we must to that extent regard every bounded space as also conditioned, presupposing another space as the condition of its boundary, and so forth.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
