Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II tions in general, without regard to their content, and says that contra­ diction entirely annihilates and cancels them.
 
 But one can also make a positive use of it, i.e., not merely to ban false­ hood and error (insofar as it rests on contradiction), but also to cognize truth. For, if the judgment is analytic, whether it be negative or affir­ mative, its truth must always be able to be cognized sufficiently in ac­ cordance with the principle of contradiction. For the contrary of that which as a concept already lies and is thought in the cognition of the objecta is always correctly denied, while the concept itself must necesB 191 sarily be affirmed of it, since its opposite would contradict the object.b Hence we must also allow the principle of contradiction to count as the universal and completely sufficient principle' of all analytic cognition; but its authority and usefulness does not extend beyond this, as a sufficient criterion of truth. For that no cognition can be opposed to it without annihilating itself certainly makes this principled into a conAI 52 ditio sine qua non, but not into a determining ground of the truth of our cognition. Since we now really have to do only with the synthetic part of our cognition, we will, to be sure, always be careful not to act con­ trary to this inviolable principle, but we cannot expect any advice from it in regard to the truth of this sort of cognition.
 
 There is, however, still one formula of this famous principle, al­ though denuded of all content and merely formal, which contains a syn­ thesis that is incautiously and entirely unnecessarily mixed into it. This is: "It is impossible for something to be and not to be at the same time." In addition to the fact that apodictic certainty is superfluously appended to this (by means of the word "impossible"), which must yet be understood from the proposition itself, the proposition is affected by B 192 the condition of time, and as it were says: "A thing A, which is some­ = thing B, cannot at the same time be non-B, although it can easily be = both (B as well as non-B) in succession." E.g., a person who is young cannot be old at the same time, but one and the same person can very well be young at one time and not young, i.e., old, at another. Now the principle of contradiction, as a merely logical principle, must not limit AI53 its claims to temporal relations.' Hence such a formula is entirely con­ trary to its aim. The misunderstanding results merely from our first ab­ stracting a predicate of a thing from its concept and subsequently connecting its opposite with this predicate, which never yields a con­ tradiction with the subject, but only with the predicate that is combined with it synthetically, and indeed only when both the first and the seca Objects b Objecte , Principium d Satz , Zeitverhiiltnisse 280 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
