Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> anything in itself, but rather that objects in themselves are not known to us at all, and that what we call outer objects are nothing other than mere representations of our sensibility, whose form is space, but whose true correlate, i.e., the thing in itself, is not and cannot be cognized through them, but is also never asked after in experience.
 
 The Transcendental Aesthetic Second Section On time.IS I Y Time is not an empirical concept that is somehow drawn from an ex­ perience. For simultaneity or succession would not themselves come into perception if the representation of time did not ground them pri­ a ori. Only under its presupposition can one represent that several things exist at one and the same time (simultaneously) or in different times (successively).
 
 A 3 I 2) Time is a necessary representation that grounds all intuitions. In regard to appearances in general one cannot remove time, though one can very well take the appearances away from time. Time is therefore given priori. In it alone is all actuality of appearances possible. The lat­ a ter could all disappear, but time itself, as the universal condition of their possibility, cannot be removed.
 
 B47 3) This priori necessity also grounds the possibility of apodictic a principles of the relations of time, or axioms of time in general. It has only one dimension: different times are not simultaneous, but succes­ sive (just as different spaces are not successive, but simultaneous).
 
 These principles could not be drawn from experience, for this would yield neither strict universality nor apodictic certainty. We would only be able to say: This is what common perception teaches, but not: This is how matters must stand. These principles are valid as rules under which experiences are possible at all, and instruct us prior to them, not through it.b 4) Time is no discursive or, as one calls it, general concept, but a pure A 3 2 form of sensible intuition. Different times are only parts of one and the same time.I6 That representation, however, which can only be given through a single object, is an intuition. Further, the proposition that different times cannot be simultaneous cannot be derived from a gena The" I" is actually printed at above the center of the first line of this paragraph rather than at its beginning.
 
 The text reads "belehren uns vor derselben, und llicht durch dieselbe." Earlier editors sug­ b gested emending the last word to "dieselben" but if the sentence is interpreted to mean "instructs us prior to experiences, not through common perception," it can be read without emendation.
 
 162 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
