The second analogy is usually thought to be Kant’s answer to Hume’s doubts about cause and effect. The third analogy is Kant’s way of arguing against Leibniz, who said that independent things don’t really interact with each other. Leibniz’s idea is important in his “monadology.” People have argued a lot about what the second analogy is supposed to prove and how it does that. They have debated this almost as much as whether Kant’s answer to Hume actually works.

In the first edition of Kant’s book, the final part of the "System of Principles," called the "Postulates of Empirical Thought," explains the rules for using ideas like possibility, existence, and necessity when we think about real experiences. It says that we can only use the ideas of possibility and necessity for things we actually experience.

But in the second edition, Kant added a new argument called the "Refutation of Idealism." This tries to show that just being aware of ourselves means that there must be an outside world. This outside world has objects that exist on their own, separate from how we think about them. People have debated what this argument really means, but it seems to support Kant’s idea from an earlier book that his "transcendental idealism" is a special kind of idealism. Unlike old idealism, which denies that real things exist outside us, Kant’s view says space and time are ways we see things, but real objects do exist independently in space and time.

In another part of his book, Kant says that we only know things as they appear to us through our senses. We call these appearances "phenomena." But Kant also talks about "noumena," which are things as they might be understood by pure thought alone, without using our senses. However, he says humans can’t actually understand things this way. So, we can only talk about noumena in a "negative sense," meaning things as they might be on their own, without our perception. But we can’t know them in a "positive sense," or as things understood directly by pure reason.
