Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II All appearances are in time, in which, as substratum (as persistent form of inner intuition), both simultaneity as well as succession can alone be represented. The time, therefore, in which all change of appearances B 225 is to be thought, lasts and does not change; since it is that in which suc­ cession or simultaneity can be represented only as determinations of it.
 
 Now time cannot be perceived by itself. a Consequently it is in the ob­ jects of perception, i.e., the appearances, that the substratum must be encountered that represents time in general and in which all change or simultaneity can be perceived in apprehension through the relation of the appearances to it. However, the substratum 'bf everything real, i.e., everything that belongs to the existenceb of things, is substance, of which everything that belongs to existence can be thought only as a de­ termination. Consequently that which persists, in relation to which alone all temporal relations of appearances can be determined, is sub­ stance in the appearance, i.e., the real in the appearance, which as the substratum of all change always remains the same. Since this, therefore, cannot change in existence, its quantum in nature can also be neither increased nor diminished.> A182 Our apprehension of the manifold of appearance is always successive, and is therefore always changing. We can therefore never deter­ mine from this alone whether this manifold, as object of experience, is simultaneous or successive, if something does not ground it which al­ ways exists, i.e., something lasting and persisting, of which all change B 226 and simultaneity are nothing but so many ways (modi of time) in which that which persists exists. Only in that which persists, therefore, are temporal relations possible (for simultaneity and succession are the only A 183 relations in time), i.e., that which persists is the substratum oft he em­ pirical representation of time itself, by which alone all time-determina­ tion is possible. Persistence gives general expression to time as the constant correlate of all existence of appearances, all change and all ac­ companiment.' For change does not affect time itself, but only the ap­ pearances in time (just as simultaneity is not a modus for time itself, in which no parts are simultaneous but rather all succeed one another). If one were to ascribe such a succession to time itself, one would have to think yet another time in which this succession would be possible. d a for sich b &iste7ZZ , Begleitung, here connoting the accompaniment of one state of affairs by another, i.e., what Kant is here otherwise calling "simultaneity" or coexistence.
 
 The following notes are added here in Kant's copy of the first edition: d "The perception of endurance is not possible through the perception of successive determinations and of the relation of their series to time, thus also not through the rela­ tion to another sequence of determinations, which itself requires a temporal space, but 300 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
