Pc II. Div. L Bk. I. Ch. II subsequently proceeded quite consistently in declaring it to be impos­ sible to go beyond the boundary of experience with these concepts and the principles that they occasion. The empirical derivation,however, to B 128 which both of them resorted, cannot be reconciled with the reality of the scientific cognition priori that we possess, that namely of pure a mathematics and general natural science, and is therefore refuted by the fact.a The first of these two famous men opened the gates wide to enthu­ siasm, since reason, once it has authority on its side, will not be kept within limits by indeterminate recommendations of moderation; the second gave way entirely to skepticism, since he believed himself to have discovered in what is generally held to be reason a deception of our faculty of cognition. -We are now about to make an attempt to see whether we cannot successfully steer human reason between these two cliffs, assign its determinate boundaries, and still keep open the entire field of its purposive activity.
 
 I will merely precede this with the explanation of the categories.
 
 They are concepts of an object in general, by means of which its intu­ ition is regarded as determined with regard to one of the logical func­ tions for judgments.2o Thus, the function of the categorical judgment was that of the relationship of the subject to the predicate, e.g., "All bodies are divisible." Yet in regard to the merely logical use of the un­ derstanding it would remain undetermined which of these two concepts B 129 will be given the function of the subject and which will be given that of the predicate. For one can also say: "Something divisible is a body." Through the category of substance, however, if I bring the concept of a body under it, it is determined that its empirical intuition in experi­ ence must always be considered as subject, never as mere predicate; and likewise with all the other categories.> A95 The Deduction of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding Second Section bOn the priori grounds for the possibility a of experience.
 
 It is entirely contradictory and impossible that a concept should be generated completely priori and be related to an object although it a a das Factum b What follows is the version of the "Transcendental Deduction" as it appeared in the first edition, where it is divided into the second and third sections of the present chap­ ter. In the second edition, these two sections will be replaced by a single second section, divided into subsections numbered from § IS to § 27. See B I29-69 below.
 
 226 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
