(3) "The idea of time is an in­ tuition," and indeed a "pure intuition," precisely because it is both singu1ar and immediately given to us in all our experience, which makes it an intuition, but also given to us as presupposed by rather than abstracted from all our experience, which makes it pure. All of these claims will be reiterated in the Critique of Pure Reason without revision, although the exposition ofthem will be somewhat amplified.82 Next, Kant asserts a claim that is not explicitly made in the initial dis­ cussion of time in the Critique but is presupposed in a number of later important parts of the work: the claim that (4) "Time is a continuous mag­ nitude," or that it consists of no simple parts but instead that between any two times, no matter how small, there is always another, smaller in­ terval of time. Then Kant adds to the reasons already given in Section 2 for the claim that (5) "Time is not something objective and real, nor is it a substance, nor an accident, nor a relation." It is important to see that there is both a positive and a negative aspect to this claim (5). The pos­ itive side is the argument that we must have a pure intuition of time be­ cause it is presupposed by our perception of any particular objects or states as simultaneous or successive, the argument (r) which Kant now reiterates. This implies that we must have a pure representation of time independent of any particular empirical perception, but does not imply that time is not also "objective and real," that is, nothing but a form of representation. For that further, negative claim Kant suggests two sorts of reasons: a metaphysical reason, aimed against Newton and "the English philosophers," that the idea of absolute time as a substance or a property of any substance (such as the sensorium dei) is absurd; and an epistemological argument, aimed against Leibniz, that conceiving of time as something we abstract from perceived relations of objects would render our knowledge of it merely empirical and therefore "completely destroy" all the certitude of the fundamental rules of mathematics and physics. The full premises of this epistemological argument, however, are not spelled out before the Critique, and even there are only hinted at.83 Finally, Kant adds that although (6) "time, posited in itself and ab­ solutely, would be an imaginary being," nevertheless, as "the universal form of phenomena," whether inner or outer, it is "to the highest de­ gree true" and (7) "an absolutely firstfo rmal principle of the sensible world." Kant makes a series of parallel claims about space.84 He claims (r) "The concept of space is not abstracted from outer sensations," because I can "only conceive of something as placed outside me [extra me] by repre­ senting it as in a place which is different from [in loco . . .d ivers o ] the place in which I am myself"; in other words, I cannot abstract the concept of space from my experience of objects distinct from myself because I can­ not experience them as distinct without already representing them as in space. (2) Like that of time, "the concept of space is a singular representation," 42 Introduction because all regions of space are represented as parts of a single, bound­ less space rather than as instances of some general sort.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
