On the logical use of the understanding in general pendently of sensibility. The understanding is therefore not a faculty of intuition. But besides intuition there is no other kind of cognition than B 93 through concepts. Thus the cognition of every, at least human, under­ standing is a cognition through concepts, not intuitive but discursive.
 
 All intuitions, as sensible, rest on affections, concepts therefore on functions. By a function, however, I understand the unity of the action of ordering different representations under a common one. Concepts are therefore grounded on the spontaneity of thinking, as sensible intuitions are grounded on the receptivity of impressions. Now the under­ standing can make no other use of these concepts than that of judging by means of them. Since noa representation pertains to the object im­ mediately except intuition alone, a concept is thus never immediately related to an object, but is always related to some other representation of it (whether that be an intuition or itself already a concept).b Judgment is therefore the mediate cognition of an object, hence the representation of a representation of it. In every judgment there is a concept that holds of many, and that among this many also comprehends a given representation, which is then related immediately to the object.5 So in the judgment, e.g., "All bodies are divisible,"c the concept of the di­ visible is related to various other concepts; among these, however, it is here particularly related to the concept of body, and this in turn is related to certain appearances d that come before us. These objects are A69 therefore mediately represented by the concept of divisibility. All judg- B 94 ments are accordingly functions of unity among our representations, since instead of an immediate representation a higher one, which com­ prehends this and other representations under itself, is used for the cognition of the object, and many possible cognitions are thereby drawn together into one. We can, however, trace all actions of the under­ standing back to judgments, so that the understanding in general can be represented as a faculty for judging. For according to what has been said above it is a faculty for thinking. Thinking is cognition through concepts. Concepts, however, as predicates of possible judgments, are related to some representation of a still undetermined object. The concept of body thus signifies something, e.g., metal, which can be cognized through that concept. It is therefore a concept only because other representations are contained under it by means of which it can be rea In his copy of the first edition, Kant inserts here the word "other" (E XXIV; p. 23; 23:45)· Kant's copy of the first edition replaces this parenthetical aside with the following b words, without parentheses: "which itself contains intuition only mediately or immedi­ ately" (E xx,xv p. 23; 23:45)· , Teilbar, rather than veranderlich, following the fourth edition.
 
 d Kant's copy of the first edition changes "appearances" to "intuitions" (E XXIXV , p. 23; 23:45)· 205 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
