Further, through the addition of one mere affirmation (reality) to another the positive is in­ creased, and nothing is taken away from it or canceled out; hence the real in things in general cannot contradict each other, etc.
 
 * * * As we have shown, through a certain misinterpretation the concepts of reflection have had such an influence on the use of the understand­ ing that they have even been able to seduce one of the most acute of all philosophers into a supposed system of intellectual cognition, which undertakes to determine its object without supplementation by the senses. For just this reason the exposition of the deceptive cause of the amphiboly of these concepts, as the occasion of false principles, is of great utility in reliably determining and securing the boundaries of the understanding.
 
 One must say, to be sure, that whatever pertains to or contradicts a B 337 concept in general also pertains to or contradicts everything particular A28I that is contained under that concept (dictum de Omni et Nullo);a," 2 but it would be absurd to alter this logical principle so that it would read: "\Vhatever is not contained in a general concept is also not contained in the particular ones that stand under it"; for the latter are particular concepts precisely because they contain more than is thought in the general concept. Yet Leibniz's entire intellectual system is really built on the latter principle: it therefore falls together with it, along with all of the ambiguity in the use of the understanding that arises from it.
 
 The principle of indiscernibles is really based on the presupposition that if a certain distinction is not to be found in the concept of a thing in general, then it is also not to be found in the things themselves; con­ sequently all things are completely identical (numero eadem)b that are not already distinguished from each other in their concepts (as to quality or quantity). But since in the mere concept of anything abstraction is made from many necessary conditions of an intuition, it is with peculiar haste that that from which abstraction has been made is taken as something that is not to be encountered at all, and nothing conceded to B 338 the thing except what is contained in its concept.
 
 The concept of a cubic foot of space, wherever and however often I A282 think it, is in itself always completely the same. Yet two cubic feet are nevertheless distinguished in space merely through their locations (numero diversa);' these are conditions of the intuition in which the objectd a principle of Allor Nothing b "the same in number," i.e., even numerically identical.
 
 , numerically diverse Object d 377 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
