On Time <B> can very well take the appearances away from time. Time is therefore given priori. In it alone is all actuality of appearances possible. The lat­ a ter could all disappear, but time itself (as the universal condition of their possibility)a cannot be removed.
 
 3) This priori necessity also grounds the possibility of apodictic B47 a principles of relations of time, or axioms of time in general. It has only one dimension: different times are not simultaneous, but successive (just as different spaces are not successive, but simultaneous). These principles could not be drawn from experience, for this would yield neither strict universality nor apodictic certainty. We would only be able to say: This is what common perception teaches, but not: This is how matters must stand. These principles are valid as rules under which alone experiences are possible at all, and instruct us prior to them, not through it.b 4) Time is no discursive or, as one calls it, general concept, but a pure form of sensible intuition. Different times are only parts of one and the same time. That representation, however, which can only be given A 3 2 through a single object, is an intuition. Further, the proposition that different times cannot be simultaneous cannot be derived from a general concept. The proposition is synthetic, and cannot arise from concepts alone. It is therefore immediately contained in the intuition and representation of time.
 
 5) The infinitude of time signifies nothing more than that every de­ terminate magnitude of time is only possible through limitations of a B48 single time grounding it. The original representation time must therefore be given as unlimited. But where the parts themselves and every magnitude of an object can be determinately represented only through limitation, there the entire representation cannot be given through concepts, « for they contain only partial representations» ,' but immediate intuition must ground them.d <§ 5 Transcendental exposition of the concept of time.
 
 I can appeal to NO. 3 where, in order to be brief, I have placed that which is properly transcendental under the heading of the metaphysical exposition. Here I add further that the concept of alteration and, with a These parentheses added in B.
 
 b The text reads "belehren uns vor derselben, und nicht durch dieselbe." Earlier editors sug­ gested emending the last word to "dieselben"; but if the sentence is interpreted to mean "instructs us prior to experiences, not through common perception," it can be read without emendation.
 
 , In the first edition: "for there the partial representations precede." d B has ihnen instead of ihre here.
 
 179 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
