Pt. II. Div. II. Book I thoroughly determined, and the original causes of things, and only the B 375 whole its combination in the totality of a world is fully adequate to its idea. If we abstract from its exaggerated expression, then the philoso­ pher's spiritual flight, which considers the physical copies a in the world order, and then ascends to their architectonic connection according to ends, i.e., ideas, is an endeavor that deserves respect and imitation; but in respect of that which pertains to principlesb of morality, legislation and religion where the ideas first make the experience (of the good) it­ self possible, even if they can never be fully expressed in experience, perform a wholly unique service, which goes unrecognized precisely be­ cause it is judged according to empirical rules, whose validity as princi­ plese should be cancelled by those very ideas. For when we consider nature, experience provides us with the rule and is the source of truth; but with respect to moral laws, experience is (alas!) the mother of illuA319 sion, and it is most reprehensible to derive the laws concerning what I ought to do from what is done, or to want to limit it to that.
 
 But instead of these matters, the prosecution of which in fact makes up the proper dignity of philosophy, we now concern ourselves with a labor less spectacular but nevertheless not unrewarding: that of making B 376 the terrain for these majestic moral edifices level and firm enough to be built upon; for under this ground there are all sorts of passageways, such as moles might have dug, left over from reason's vain but confident treasure hunting, that make every building insecure. It is the transcen­ dental use of pure reason, of its principlesd and ideas, whose closer ac­ quaintance we are now obligated to make, in order properly to determine and evaluate the influence and the worth of pure reason. Yet before I conclude this provisional introduction, I entreat those who take philosophy to heart (which means more than is commonly supposed), if they find themselves convinced by this and the following discussion, to take care to preserve the expression idea in its original meaning, so that it will not henceforth fall among the other expressions by which all sorts of representations are denoted in careless disorder, to the detriment of science. We are not so lacking in terms properly suited to each species of representation that we have need for one to encroach on the propA 320 erty of another. Here is their progression:e The genus is representa­ tion in general (repraesentatio). Under it stands the representation with consciousness (perceptio). A perception! that refers to the subject as a modification of its state is a sensation (sensatio); an objective percepa von der copeilichen Betrachtung des Physischen b Principien , Principien d Principien , St ufenleiter f Perception 398 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
