Pt. II. Div. II. Book I mortal"), I determine the cognition of my object according to it ("Caius is mortal").
 
 Accordingly, in the conclusion of a syllogism we restrict a predicate B 379 to a certain object, after we have thought it in the major premise in its whole domain under a certain condition. This complete magnitude of the domain, in relation to such a condition, is called universality (uni­ versalitas). In the synthesis of intuition this corresponds to allness (uni­ versitas), or the totality of conditions. So the transcendental concept of reason is none other than that of the totality of conditions to a given conditioned thing. Now since the unconditioned alone makes possible the totality of conditions, and conversely the totality of conditions is al­ ways itself unconditioned, a pure concept of reason in general can be explained a through the concept of the unconditioned, insofar as it con­ tains a ground of synthesis for what is conditioned. 17 A323 There will be as many concepts of reason as there are species of relationb represented by the understanding by means of the categories; and so we must seek an unconditioned, first, for the categorical synthesis in a subject, second for the hypothetical synthesis of the members of a series, and third for the disjunctive synthesis of the parts in a system. 18 There are, therefore, just as many species of syllogism, and in each of them prosyllogisms proceed to the unconditioned: one, to a subject that is no longer a predicate, another to a presupposition that presupB 380 poses nothing further, and the third to an aggregate of members of a division such that nothing further is required for it to complete the di­ vision of a concept. Hence the pure rational concepts of the totality in a synthesis of conditions are necessary at least as problems of extend­ ing the unity of the understanding, if possible, to the unconditioned, and they are grounded in the nature of human reason, even if these transcendental concepts lack a suitable use in concreto and have no other utility than to point the understanding in the right direction so that it may be thoroughly consistent with itself when it extends itself to its ut­ tennost extremes.
 
 A 3 24 However, while we are speaking here about the totality of conditions and the unconditioned, as the common title of all concepts of reason, we once again run up against an expression with which we cannot dispense and at the same time cannot safely use because of an ambiguity it has ac­ quired through long misuse. The term absolute is one of the few words that in its original meaning was suited to one concept that by and large no other word in the same language precisely suits, and so its loss, or what is the same thing, its vacillating use, must carry with it the loss of B 381 the concept itself, but this is indeed a concept with which we cannot disa erkliirt Verhiiltnis b 400 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
