Reflectionc (rejlexio) does not have to do with objects themselves, in order to acquire concepts directly from them, but is rather the state of mind in which we first prepare ourselves to find out the subjective con­ ditions under which we can arrive at concepts.97 It is the consciousness of the relation d of given representations to our various sources of cog­ nition, through which alone their relation among themselves can be correctly determined. The first question prior to all further treatment of our representation is this: In which cognitive faculty do they belong together? Is it the understanding or is it the senses before which they are connected or compared? Many a judgment is accepted out of habit, or connected through inclination: but since no reflection preceded or at A261 least critically succeeded it, it counts as one that has received its origin in the understanding. Not all judgments require an investigation, i.e., attention to the grounds of truth; for if they are immediately certain, B 3 17 e.g., between two points there can be only one straight line, then no further mark of truth can be given for them than what they themselves express. But all judgments, indeed all comparisons, require a reflec­ tion, i.e., a distinction of the cognitive power to which the given cona There are only minor differences between the versions of this section in the two edi­ tions, mostly changes in orthography that do not affect the translation. Thus only one version of the section will be presented here.
 
 Reflexion b , Uberlegung; since the following parenthesis shows that Kant treats this Germanic term as synonymous with the Latinate Reflexion, we will not mark any distinction between occurrences of Uberlegung and Reflexion.
 
 d Verbaltnisses. Since Beziebung occurs only three times in this section, we will note only when "relation" is used to translate that term rather than the far more frequent occur­ rences of Verbaltnis.
 
 366 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection cepts belong.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
