Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> the entire theory of them useless and empty. The difference between an :a61 indistinct and a distinct representation is merely logical, and does not concern the content. Without doubt the concept of right that is used by the healthy understanding contains the very same things that the most subtle speculation can evolve out of it, only in common and prac­ tical use one is not conscious of these manifold representations in these thoughts. Thus one cannot say that the common concept is sensible and A44 contains a mere appearance, for right cannot appear at all; rather its concept lies in the understanding and represents a constitution (the moral constitution) of actions that pertains to them in themselves. The representation of a body in intuition, on the contrary, contains nothing at all that could pertain to an object in itself, but merely the appearance of something and the way in which we are affected by it; and this re­ ceptivity of our cognitive capacity is called sensibility and remains worlds apart from the cognition of the object in itself even if one might see through to the very bottom of it (the appearance).
 
 The Leibnizian-Wolffian philosophy has therefore directed all inves­ tigations of the nature and origin of our cognitions to an entirely unjust point of view in considering the distinction between sensibility and the intellectual as merely logical, since it is obviously transcendental, and :a62 does not concern merely the form of distinctness or indistinctness, but its origin and content, so that through sensibility we do not cognize the constitution of things in themselves merely indistinctly, but rather not at all, and, as soon as we take away our subjective constitution, the rep­ resented object" with the properties that sensible intuition attributes to it is nowhere to be encountered, nor can it be encountered, for it is just this subjective constitution that determines its form as appearance.35 A45 We ordinarily distinguish quite well between that which is essentially attached to the intuition of appearances, and is valid for every human sense in general, and that which pertains to them only contingently be­ cause it is not valid for the relationb of sensibility in general but only for a particular situation or organization of this or that sense. And thus one calls the first cognition one that represents the object in itself, but the second one only its appearance. This distinction, however, is only em­ pirical. If one stands by it (as commonly happens) and does not regard that empirical intuition as in turn mere appearance (as ought to hap­ pen), so that there is nothing to be encountered in it that pertains to anything in itself, then our transcendental distinction is lost, and we beObject a b As noted in the first-edition version above, here Kant switches from Verhaltnis to Beziehung as his topic switches from the relation of objects in space or time to each other to the relation of space and time to us. With one exception to be noted, therefore, for the remainder of this section (I) "relation" translates Verhalmis. In the new paragraphs 11 through IV added below, however, Kant again reverts to Verha/mis.
 
 186 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
