Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II an experience in general and the synthetic unity in which alone objects can be empirically cognized.
 
 But if one wanted to make entirely new concepts of substances, of forces, and of interactions from the material that perception offers us, without borrowing the example of their connection from experience it­ self, then one would end up with nothing but figments of the brain, for the possibility of which there would be no indications at all, since in their case one did not accept experience as instructress nor borrow these concepts from it. Invented concepts of this sort cannot acquire the character of their possibility priori, like the categories, as conditions a on which all experience depends, but only a posteriori, as ones given through experience itself, and their possibility must either be cognized B 2 70 a posteriori and empirically or not cognized at all. A substance that was persistently present in space yet without filling it (like that intermedi­ ate thing between matter and thinking beings, which some would in­ troduce),80 or a special fundamental power of our mind to intuit the future (not merely, say, to deduce it), or, finally, a faculty of our mind to stand in a community of thoughts with other men (no matter how disA223 tant they may be)81 -these are concepts the possibility of which is en­ tirely groundless, because it cannot be grounded in experience and its known laws, and without this it is an arbitrary combination of thoughts that, although it contains no contradiction, still can make no claim to objective reality, thus to the possibility of the sort of object that one would here think. As far as reality is concerned, it is evidently intrinsi­ cally forbidden to think it in concreto without getting help from experi­ ence, because it can only pertain to sensation, as the matter of experience, and does not concern the form of the relation that one can always play with in fictions. a But I leave aside everything the possibility of which can only be de­ rived from actuality in experience, and consider here only the possi­ bility of things through concepts a priori, about which I proceed to B27! assert that it can never occur by itself solely from such concepts, but always only as formal and objective conditions of an experience in general.
 
 It may look, to be sure, as if the possibility of a triangle could be cog­ nized from its concept in itself (it is certainly independent of experi­ ence); for in fact we can give it an object entirely priori, i.e., construct a it. But since this is only the form of an object, it would still always reA224 main only a product of the imagination, the possibility of whose object would still remain doubtful, as requiring something more, namely that such a figure be thought solely under those conditions on which all ob­ jects of experience rest. Now that space is a formal priori condition of a a Erdichtungen 324 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
