System of transcendental ideas them from the nature of our reason, and this is to be accomplished in the present section.
 
 We easily see that pure reason has no other aim than the absolute to­ tality of synthesis on the side of conditions (whether they are condi­ tions of inherence, dependence, or concurrence), and that reason has nothing to do with absolute completeness from the side of the condi­ tioned. For it needs only the former series in order to presuppose the whole series of conditions and thereby give it to the understanding a priori. But once a complete (and unconditioned) given condition exists, then a concept of reason is no longer needed in respect of the progress of the series; for the understanding by itself makes every step downwards from the condition to the conditioned. In this way, the tran- B 394 scendental ideas serve only for ascending in the series of conditions to the unconditioned, i.e., to the principles.a But regarding descent to the conditioned, there is a very extensive logical use that our reason makes A 3 3 7 of the laws of the understanding, but no transcendental use and if we make ourselves an idea of absolute totality of such a synthesis (of a pro­ gressive one), e.g., an idea of the whole series of all future alterations in the world, then this is just a thing of thought (an ens rationis),b which is thought up only arbitrarily, and not presupposed necessarily by reason. For the possibility of something conditioned presupposes the totality of its conditions, but not the totality of its consequences.
 
 Consequently such a concept is not a transcendental idea, which is what exclusively concerns us here.
 
 Finally we also come to be aware that a certain connection and unity showing itself among the transcendental ideas tl1emselves and that pure reason by means of it brings all its cognitions into a system. To progress from the cognition of oneself (of the soul) to cognition of the world and, by means of this, to the original being, is so natural that this pro­ gression appears similar to the logical advance of reason from premises B 395 to a conclusion.* Whether there is actually here an affinity of the same * c<Metaphysics has as the proper end of its investigation only three ideas: God, B 395 freedom, and immortality; so that the second concept, combined with the first, should lead to the third as a necessary conclusion. Everything else with which this science is concerned serves merely as a means of attaining these ideas and their reality. It does not need them for the sake of natural science, but instead to get beyond nature. The insight into these ideas would make theology, morals, and, through their combination, religion, thus the highest ends of our existence, dependent solely on the faculty of speculative reason and on nothing else. In a systematic representation of those ideas, the suggested order, a Principien being of reason b C This note was added in the second edition.
 
 407 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
