4 Although Kant first talked about the difference between the way philosophy works (analytic method) and the way math works (synthetic method) back in 1762-64, he officially introduced the idea of analytic and synthetic judgments in his book Critique of Pure Reason. But this idea didn’t just appear out of nowhere. Kant had been thinking about it for many years.

You can find notes about this difference in his early writings from 1764-66 and in many other notes he made while working on the Critique. These notes show how Kant kept developing the idea between 1769 and 1776. He also used this distinction a lot in notes from 1774-75 and in his comments on a logic textbook by Georg Friedrich Meier.

After the Critique was published, this difference became a big topic in debates, especially between Kant and another philosopher named J. A. Eberhard. Even in his later writings, Kant was still thinking about and exploring this idea.

5 For more detail, you can look at Kant’s notes from 1772-76 and 1773-75 that explain this distinction clearly.

6 Kant also explained the idea of "transcendental cognition," which means knowledge about where ideas come from, and "transcendent cognition," which means knowledge about things we can’t experience directly. He wrote about this around 1776-78.

7 There are other notes from around the same time that help explain these ideas further.

8 Kant’s writings from 1776-78 give more definitions and explanations about knowledge and experience.

9 In another work called Metaphysik Mrongovius, Kant made a similar distinction between two kinds of a priori knowledge: one that is completely independent of experience and one that comes through reason but still relies on some experience.

10 Kant also suggested that philosophy has both pure (completely independent of experience) and empirical (based on experience) parts. This idea was important for his later work where he separated theoretical and practical reason, as well as different branches of metaphysics. He also mentioned the idea of "impure but a priori" knowledge, which is a mix of both.

11 You can compare Kant’s ideas with those of the philosopher Leibniz, especially in Leibniz’s New Essays concerning Human Understanding.
