Systematic representation of all synthetic principles precise and correct if one characterizes the accident only through the way in which the existence of a substance is positively determinedJo Nevertheless, thanks to the conditions of the logical use of our under足 standing, it is still unavoidable for us to abstract out, as it were, that which can change in the existence of a substance while the substance re足 mains, and to consider it in relation to what is really persistent and fun足 damental;a thus this category also stands under the title of relations, but more as their condition than as itself containing a relation.
 
 Now on this persistence there is also grounded a correction of the concept of alteration. Arising and perishing are not alterations of that which arises or perishes. Alteration is a way of existing that succeeds an足 other way of existing of the very same object. Hence everything that is altered is lasting, and only its state changes.?' Thus since this change concerns only the determinations that can cease or begin, we can say, in an expression that seems somewhat paradoxical, that only what persists (the substance) is altered, while that which is changeableb does not suf- B 231 fer any alteration but rather a change, since some determinations cease and others begin.
 
 Alteration can therefore be perceived only in substances, and arising A 188 or perishing per se cannot be a possible perception unless it concerns merely a determination of that which persists, for it is this very thing that persists that makes possible the representation of the transition from one state into another, and from non-being into being, which can therefore be empirically cognized only as changing determinations of that which lastsY If you assume that something simply began to be, then you would have to have a point of time in which it did not exist.
 
 But what would you attach this to, if not to that which already exists?
 
 For an empty time that would precede is not an object of perception; but if you connect this origination to things that existed antecedently and which endure until that which arises, then the latter would be only a determination of the former, as that which persists. It is just the same with perishing: for this presupposes the empirical representation of a time at which there is no longer an appearance.
 
 Substances (in appearance) are the substrata of all time-determinations. The arising of some of them and the perishing of others would itself remove the sole condition of the empirical unity of time, and the appearances would then be related to two different times, in which ex- B 232 istence flowed side by side, which is absurd. For there is only one time, in which all different times must not be placed simultaneously but only A 189 one after another.
 
 Persistence is accordingly a necessary condition under which alone a das eigentliche Beharrliche und Radikale das Wandelbare b 303 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
