Ch. 1. Sec. I pearances, space and time, and a concept of these, as quanta, can be ex­ hibited a priori in pure intuition, i.e., constructed, together with either its quality (its shape) or else merely its quantity (the mere synthesis of the homogeneous manifold) through number. The matter of appear­ ances, however, through which things in space and time are given to us, can be represented only in perception, thus a posteriori. The only con­ cept that represents this empirical content of appearances a priori is the concept of the thing in general, and the synthetic a priori cognition of this can never yield a priori more than the mere rule of the synthesis of that which perception may give a posteriori, but never the intuition of the real object, since this must necessarily be empirical.
 
 Synthetic propositions that pertain to things in general, the intuition of which cannot be given a priori, are transcendental. Thus transcen­ dental propositions can never be given through construction of con­ cepts, but only in accordance with a priori concepts. They contain merely the rule in accordance with which a certain synthetic unity of A72IiB749 that which cannot be intuitively represented a priori (of perceptions) should be sought empirically. They cannot, however, exhibit a single one of their concepts a priori in any case, but do this only a posteriori, by means of experience, which first becomes possible in accordance with those synthetic principles.
 
 If one is to judge synthetically about a concept, then one must go be­ yond this concept, and indeed go to the intuition in which it is given. For if one were to remain with that which is contained in the concept, then the judgment would be merely analytic, an explanation of what is actu­ ally contained in the thought. However, I can go from the concept to the pure or empirical intuition corresponding to it in order to assess it in con­ creto and cognize a priori or a posteriori what pertains to its object. The former is rational and mathematical cognition through the construction of the concept, the latter merely empirical (mechanical) cognition, which can never yield necessary and apodictic propositions. Thus I could analyze my empirical concept of gold without thereby gaining anything more than being able to enumerate what I actually think by means of this word, which would certainly produce a logical improvement in my cog­ nition, but no augmentation or supplementation of it. But I can take the matter that goes by this name and initiate perceptions of it, which will A 72z1 B 750 provide me with various synthetic though empirical propositions. The mathematical concept of a triangle I would construct, i.e., give in intu­ ition a priori, and in this way I would acquire synthetic but rational cog­ nition. However, if I am given the transcendental concept of a reality, substance, force, etc., it designates neither an empirical nor a pure intu­ ition, but only the synthesis of empirical intuitions (which thus qnnot be given a priori), and since the synthesis cannot proceed a priori to the intuition that corresponds to it, no determining synthetic proposition 634 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use but only a principle of the synthesis* of possible empirical intuitions can arise from it.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
