Kant says that simple "judgments of perception" only describe how things look to one person and don’t claim to be true for everyone. These judgments use logical thinking, but they don’t guarantee that others will agree with them. On the other hand, "judgments of experience" try to be true for everyone. They get their universal truth by using certain a priori categories, which help make the judgments clear and definite.

Kant explains this idea more in the Preface to the Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science, written three years later. Here, he says the categories are necessary to make logical judgments clear, even without separating judgments of perception from judgments of experience. Although this avoids some confusing ideas Kant had before, it also assumes that knowledge claims are always true for everyone. This assumption wouldn’t make sense to skeptics or people who rely only on experience.

During 1783-84, Kant kept working on ideas about how the mind unifies experiences and how judgments can be objectively valid. But when he rewrote the chapter on the transcendental deduction for the second edition of his book, he went back to his earlier plan. He tried to combine these ideas to build a strong foundation for the objective truth of the categories.

In April 1786, when Kant’s publisher told him a new edition of the Critique was needed, he thought about making big changes. This might have included more about practical reason and a new version of his ideas on theoretical reason. At the same time, Kant took on the job of being head of his university.

Later that year, Kant chose to make smaller, but still important, changes. By January 1787, he had finished enough to start printing the new edition, and by April, all the revisions were done—just one year after the publisher’s request. Between 1781 and 1787, Kant also wrote notes in his own copy of the first edition, but these notes don’t match the changes made in the 1787 edition. So, it’s unlikely he wrote them during the 1786–87 revision process.
