Concepts, he argues, which link pred­ icates to one another, can become distinct only by means of judgments; and inferences, which might have been thought to call upon additional powers of mind beyond the power of judgment, are in fact complex or iterated judgments)7 Thus Kant concludes that "understanding and rea­ son, that is to say, the faculty of cognizing distinctly and the faculty of syllogistic reasoning, are not different fundamentalf aculties. Both consist in the capacity to judge . . ." 38 The recognition that judgment is the fundamental form of all cogni­ tive acts will be crucial to the Critique in three ways: Kant will formu­ late the problem of the very possibility of philosophy as the problem of the possibility of synthetic a priori judgment, or the problem of how judgments can go beyond what can be derived from the mere analysis of concepts yet also claim universal and necessary validity. He will argue that the necessary conditions for the application of categories derived from the logical forms of judgment to the spatiotemporal form of human experience are the source of all those synthetic a priori judg­ ments that theoretical (as contrasted to practical or moral) philosophy can actually prove. And he will argue, in the "Transcendental Dialectic" of the first Critique, that the fundamental illusion of traditional meta­ physics is to think that human reason gives direct theoretical insight into the constitution of things as they are in themselves instead of sim­ ply concatenating simpler judgments of the understanding into the more complex judgments we call syllogisms or inferences. Kant's insis­ tence on the primacy of judgment in human thought is a first step to­ ward all these critical theses.
 
 In a longer work, indeed a small book, The Only Possible Basis for a Demonstration of the Existence of God, Kant's thought advanced toward the Critique from a different direction. The argument of the book di­ vides into two main parts. In the first section, as the title suggests, Kant discusses proofs of the existence of God. On the one hand, he refines his original criticism of the ontological argument, and adds to it criti­ cisms of two other traditional arguments, the argument from the con­ tingency of the world to the necessity of its cause, which had been popularized by Leibniz and which Kant was to dub the "cosmological" argument, and the argument from the order of the world to an intelli­ gent author of it, or the argument from design, which was widely pop­ ular among eighteenth-century thinkers and which Kant was to call the "physico-theological" argument.39 On the other hand, Kant refines and extends his own argument that the existence of God can be demon­ strated as an actual and necessary condition of the existence of any other possibility, an argument that appeals to the premise that it would be im­ possible to deny that anything is possible.40 From the concept of God 29 Introduction as the necessary ground of possibility, Kant then proceeds to derive tra­ ditional predicates of God such as uniqueness, simplicity, immutability, and indeed even the claim that the necessary being is a mind.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
