Ch. III Second: Once one gives up the hope of achieving anything useful a priori, where does that leave empirical psychology, which has always asserted its place in metaphysics, and from which one has expected such great enlightenment in our own times?49 I answer: It comes in where the proper (empirical) doctrine of nature must be put, namely on the side of applied philosophy, for which pure philosophy contains the a priori principles,a which must therefore be combined but never con­ fused with the former. Empirical psychology must thus be entirely banned from metaphysics, and is already excluded by the idea of it.
 
 Nevertheless, in accord with the customary scholastic usage one must still concede it a little place (although only as an episode) in metaA849/B 877 physics, and indeed from economic motives, since it is not yet rich enough to comprise a subject on its own and yet it is too important for one to expel it entirely or attach it somewhere else where it may well have even less affinity than in metaphysics. It is thus merely a long-ac­ cepted foreigner, to whom one grants refuge for a while until it can es­ tablish its own domicile in a complete anthropology (the pendant to the empirical doctrine of nature).
 
 This is, therefore, the general idea of metaphysics, which, since we initially expected more from it than could appropriately be demanded and long amused ourselves with pleasant expectations, in the end fell into general contempt when we found ourselves deceived in our hopes.
 
 From the whole course of our critique we will have been sufficiently convinced that even though metaphysics cannot be the foundation of religion, yet it must always remain its bulwark, and that human reason, which is already dialectical on account of the tendency of its nature, could never dispense with such a science, which reins it in and, by means of a scientific and fully illuminating self-knowledge/ prevents the devastations that a lawless speculative reason would otherwise in­ evitably perpetrate in both morality and religion. 'Ve can therefore be sure that however obstinate or disdainful they may be who know how A8so/B878 to judge a science not in accord with its nature, but only from its con­ tingent effects, we will always return to metaphysics as to a beloved from whom we have been estranged, since reason, because essential ends are at issue here, must work without respite either for sound in­ sight or for the destruction of good insights that are already to hand.
 
 Thus the metaphysics of nature as well as morals, but above all the preparatory (propaedeutic) critique of reason that dares to fly with its own wings, alone constitute that which we can call philosophy in a gen­ uine sense.' This relates everything to wisdom, but through the path of n Principien b Selbsterkenntnis , Verstande 700 / The architectonic of pure reason science, the only one which, once cleared, is never overgrown, and never leads to error.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
