The antithetic of pure reason therefore (whether it is full or empty),* may well be bounded by appearances, but appearances cannot be bounded by an empty space out- A43 3 / B 46 I side themselves. The same also holds for time. Admitting all this, it is nevertheless uncontroversial that one surely would have to assume these two non-entities, empty space outside the world and empty time before it, if one assumes a boundary to the world, whether in space or in time.
 
 For as to the attempt to escape this consequence by saying that if the world has boundaries (in time and space) then the infinite emptiness would have to determine the existence of things as to their magnitude, this consists in thinking surrepjtiously of who knows what intelligible world in place of a world of sense, and, instead of a first beginning (an existence before which a time of non-existence precedes) one thinks of an existence in general that presupposes no other condition in the world, rather than the boundary of extension one thinks of the limits of the world-whole, and thus one gets time and space out of the way.
 
 But here we are talking only about the mundus phaenomenon a and its magnitude, where one can in no way abstract from the intended condi足 tions of sensibility without removing the being itself. The world of sense, if it is bounded, necessarily lies in an infinite emptiness. If one wants to leave this out, and hence leave out space in general as the a pri足 ori condition of the possibility of appearances, then the whole world of sense is left out. But in our problem this alone is given to us. The mundus intelligibilisb is nothing but the concept of a world in general, abstracting from all conditions of intuiting it, and in regard to which, consequently, no synthetic proposition at all, whether affirmative or negative, is possible.c * It is easy to notice what would be said here: that empty space, insofar as it A43I!B459 is bounded by appearances, hence space within the world, does not con足 A433/B 46r tradict transcendental principlesd at least, and thus could be allowed by them (even though its possibility would not be directly asserted).
 
 a world of appearance intelligible world b , In the first edition, Kant notes: "The cosmological proof of the existence of a necessary being is that from the first mover, or still more generally, from that which first begins.
 
 Now with this, causality must also begin, because the concept of a beginning always presupposes a time in which the series was not. In this time it still could not have causal足 ity, hence it would have had to begin first ofall." (E CLXVIII, p. 50; 23=40) Principien d 475 The Antinomy of Pure Reason Second Conflict of the Transcendentalldeas60 Thesis Every composite substance in the world consists of simple parts, and nothing exists anywhere except the simple or what is composed of simples.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
