g., the principle of causality), must give way to the modest one of a mere analytic of the pure understanding.
 
 Thinking is the action of relating given intuitions to an object. If the B 304 manner of this intuition is not given in any way, then the object is merely transcendental, and the concept of the understanding has none other than a transcendental use, namely the unity of thought of a manifold in general. Now through a pure category, in which abstraction is made from any condition of sensible intuition as the only one that is possible for us, no object a is determined, rather only the thought of an objectb in general is expressed in accordance with different modi. Now to the use of a concept there also belongs a function of the power of judgment, whereby an object is subsumed under it, thus at least the formal condition under which something can be given in intuition. If this condition of the power of judgment (schema) is missing, then all sub­ sumption disappears; for nothing would be given that could be subsumed under the concept. The merely transcendental use of the categories is thus in fact no use at all, and has no determinate or even, as far as its form is concerned, determinable object. From this it also follows A248 that the pure category does not suffice for any synthetic a priori principle, and that the principles of the pure understanding are only of empirical but never of transcendental use; but nowhere beyond the field of possible experience can there be any synthetic priori principles. B 305 a It may therefore be advisable to express ourselves thus: The pure cat­ egories, without formal conditions of sensibility, have merely transcen­ dental significance, but are not of any transcendental use, since this is impossible in itself, for they are lacking all conditions of any use (in judgments), namely the formal conditions of the subsumption of any sort of supposed object under these concepts. Thus since (as merely pure categories) they are not supposed to have empirical use, and can­ not have transcendental use, they do not have any use at all if they are separated from all sensibility, i.e., they cannot be applied to any sup­ posed object at all; rather they are merely the pure form of the em­ ployment of the understanding in regard to objects in general and of thinking, yet without any sort of objectC being able to be thought or de­ termined through them alone.
 
 d<Nevertheless, this is grounded on a deception that is difficult to Jili avoid. As far as their origin is concerned, e categories are not grounded on sensibility, as are the forms of intuition, space and time; a Object Objects b , Object d The next four paragraphs were substituted in the second edition for seven paragraphs from A249 to A253.
 
 359 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
