Critique of all speculative theology more can follow from it in any case than that where we expected a tele­ ological connection (nexus finalis), a merely mechanical or physical one (nexus effectivus) is to be found; in such a case we only miss one more A688/B716 unity, but we do not ruin the unity of reason in its empirical use. But even this setback cannot at all affect the law itself, in its universal and teleological aim. For although an anatomist can be convicted of error when he relates some organ of an animal's body to an end which, as one can clearly show, does not follow from it, it is nevertheless quite impossible to prove in anyone case that a natural arrangement, whatever it might be, has no end at all. Hence (medical) physiology extends its very limited empirical acquaintance with the ends served by the structure of an organic body through a principle prompted merely by pure reason -and this to such an extent that it is assumed confidently, and with the agreement of all who understand the matter, that everything in an animal has its utility and good aim; this presupposition, if it is supposed to be constitutive, goes much further than previous observation can justify; from this it can be seen that it is nothing but a regulative principle a of reason for attaining to the highest systematic unity by means of the idea of the purposive causality of the supreme cause of the world, as if this being, as the highest intelligence, were the cause of everything according to the wisest aim.
 
 But if we depart from this restriction of the idea to a merely regulative A 689/ B 7 7 I use, then reason will be misled in several ways, by forsaking the ground of experience, which has to contain the markers for its course, and by venturing beyond experience into the incomprehensible and inscrutable, in whose heights it necessarily becomes dizzy because from this standpoint it sees itself entirely cut off from every use attuned to experience.
 
 The first mistake that arises from using the idea of a highest being not merely regulatively but (contrary to the nature of an idea) constitu­ tively, is that of lazy reason (ignava ratio).* One can use this term for any principle that makes one regard his investigation into nature, whatever it may be, as absolutely complete, so that reason can take a rest, as A690/ B 7 I 8 though it had fully accomplished its business. Hence the psychological idea too, if it is used as a constitutive principleb to explain the appear* This is what the ancient dialecticians called the sophismc which goes as fol- A 689/B7 I 7 lows: If it is your fate to recover from this illness, then that will happen whether you employ a physician or not. I24 Cicero says that this way of inferring gets its name from the fact that if one follows it, then that would leave reason without any use in life. This is why I record the sophistical argument I2 5 of pure reason using the same name.
 
 a Princip Princip b C Trugschlufl (deceptive inference).
 
 615 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
