But since there were fortunately only a few of them, they could not prevent the dogmatists from continually attempting to rebuild, though never according to a plan unanimously accepted among them­ selves. Once in recent times it even seemed as though an end would be put to all these controversies, and the lawfulnesso of all the competing claims would be completely decided, through a certain physiology of .the human understanding (by the famous Locke);4 but it turned out that although the birth of the purported queen was traced to the rabble of common experience and her pretensions would therefore have been rightly rendered suspicious, nevertheless she still asserted her claims, because in fact this genealogy was attributed to her falsely; thus metaAX physics fell back into the same old worm-eaten dogmatism, and thus into the same position of contempt out of which the science was to have been extricated. Now after all paths (as we persuade ourselves) have been tried in vain, what rules is tedium and complete indifferentism,s the mother of chaos and night in the sciences, but at the same time also the origin, or at least the prelude, of their incipient transformation and enlightenment, when through ill-applied effort they have become ob­ scure, confused, and useless.
 
 For it is pointless to affect indifference with respect to such in­ quiries, to whose object human nature cannot be indifferent. More­ over, however much they may think to make themselves unrecognizable by exchanging the language of the schools for a popular style, these so­ called indifferentists, to the extent that they think anything at all, al­ ways unavoidably fall back into metaphysical assertions, which they yet professed so much to despise. Nevertheless this indifference, occurring amid the flourishing of all sciences, and directed precisely at those sci­ ences whose resultsb (if such are to be had at all) we could least do withAX! out, is a phenomenon deserving our attention and reflection. This is evidently the effect not of the thoughtlessness of our age, but of its ripened power of judgment, * which will no longer be put off with il* Now and again one hears complaints about the superficiality of our age's way of thinking, and about the decay of well-grounded science. Yet I do not see that those sciences whose grounds are well laid, such as mathematics, physics, etc., in the least deserve this charge; rather, they maintain their old reputation for well-groundedness, and in the case of natural science, even surpass it. This same spirit would also prove itself effective in other species of cognition if only care had first been taken to correct their principles. C In the absence of this, indifference, doubt, and finally strict criticism are rather proofs of a well­ grounded way of thinking. Our age is the genuine age of criticism, to which a Rechtmassigkeit Kenntnisse b , Principien 100 Preface <A> lusory knowledge, and which demands that reason should take on anew the most difficult of all its tasks, namely, that of self-knowledge,a and to institute a court of justice, by which reason may secure its rightful claims while dismissing all its groundless pretensions, and this not by mere decrees but according to its own eternal and unchangeable laws; AXIl and this court is none other than the critique of pure reason itself.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
