On the paralogisms of pure reason sentation of self-consciousness, would at once transform rational psy­ chology into an empirical psychology.
 
 I thinka is thus the sole text of rational psychology, from which it is to develop its entire wisdom. One easily sees that this thought, if it is to be related to an object (myself), can contain nothing other than its tran­ scendental predicates; because the least empirical predicate would cor­ rupt the rational purity and independence of the science from all experience.
 
 Here, however, we have merely to follow the guide of the categories; A 344/ B 402 only since here first a thing, I as a thinking being, is given, we will not, to be sure, alter the above order of the categories to one another as represented in their table, but we will begin here with the category of substance, and thus go backwards through the series. The topics of the rational doctrine of the soul, from which everything else that it may contain has to be derived, are therefore the following: I.
 
 The soul is substanceb 2. 3· In its quality, In the different times simple in which it exists, numerically identical i.e., unity (not plurality) 4· In relation' to possible objects in space* * The reader, who will not so easily guess from these expressions in their tran­ scendental abstraction, their psychological sense and why the ultimate at­ tribute of the soul belongs to the category of existence, will find this ade­ quately explained and justified in what follows. Besides, on account of the Latin expressions that, contrary to good taste in writing, have inundated us here in place of equivalent German ones, in this section as well as in the whole work, I must adduce the following by way of apology: I would rather lose something by way of elegance of language than make scholastic usage even more difficult through the least unintelligibility.
 
 a Note in Kant's copy of the first edition: "[This] is a proposition priori, is a mere cate­ a gory of the subject, intellectual representation without anywhere or at any time, hence not empirical. Whether the category of reality lies in it, whether objective inferences are to be drawn from it." (E CLX, p. 48; 23:39) Kant's copy of the critique contains the revision: "The soul exists as substance" (E b CLXI, p. 49).
 
 , Verhdltnis 413 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
