Systematic representation of all synthetic principles ception (sensation, as the matter of the senses), and through this deter­ mined by means of the understanding, then the objecta is actual; and if it is determined through the connectionb of perceptions in accordance with concepts, then the object is called necessary. The principles of modality therefore do not assert of a concept anything other than the ac­ tion of the cognitive faculty through which it is generated. Now in mathematics a postulate is the practical proposition that contains noth­ ing except the synthesis through which we first give ourselves an object and generate its concept, e.g., to describe a circle with a given line from a given point on a plane; and a proposition of this sort cannot be proved, since the procedure that it demands is precisely that through which we first generate the concept of such a figure. Accordingly we can postulate the principles of modality with the very same right, since they do not augment* their concept of things in general, but rather only indicate the A235 way in which in general it is combined with the cognitive power.' * * * * Through the actuality of a thing I certainly posit more than possibility, but not in the thing; for that can never contain more in actuality than what was contained in its complete possibility. But while possibility was merely a posit­ ingd of a thing in relatione to the understanding (to its empirical use), actual­ ity is at the same time its connection with perception.
 
 Zusammenhange e a Object b Zusammenhang , The following series of notes is inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition at A 2 34-5, presumably constituting notes made for the "General Remark" that he adds at this point in the second edition: "Now comes the proposition: how are synthetic a priori propositions possible." (E XCVIII, p. 37; 23=33) "Finally: How are synthetic a priori propositions possible through concepts, how are they possible through the construction of concepts?" (E XCIX, p. 37; 23:33) "On the possibility of an ars characteristica vel combinatoria." (E C, p. 37; 23:33) "It is remarkable that for these postulates we must always have a mechanical medium[:] either a model as a string that lies, or the motion of this string around a point." (E CI, p. 37; 23=33) "That all principles and synthetic a priori propositions in general do not go further than objects of experience, and that if we would still go beyond them then no intuition can correspond to them." (E CII, p. 38; 23:33-4) "That the pure laws of understanding also teach nothing further than the laws under which alone experience in general is possible, not the particular laws of the objects of experience. But that the laws of appearances (which are merely in us) thus have their seat and origin in the understanding, therefore also in us, is not to be marveled at.
 
 Indeed it is not possible to cognize a law with its necessity in such a way that we could have cognized it otherwise than in our own understanding. The chemical laws are not laws so much as rules of nature." (E CIII, p. 38; 23:34) Position d Beziehung e 333 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
