Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II matics. In the latter they are formulas that assert the identity of two rela­ tions of magnitude,a and are always constitutive, so that if two members of the proportion are given the third is also thereby given, i.e., can be constructed. In philosophy, however, analogy is not the identity of two quantitative but of two qualitative relations, where from three given members I can cognize and give priori only the relation to a fourth a Al80 member but not this fourth member itself, although I have a rule for seeking it in experience and a mark for discovering it there. An analogy of experience will therefore be only a rule in accordance with which unity of experience is to arise from perceptions (not as a perception itself, as empirical intuition in general), and as a principle it will not be valid of the objects (of the appearances) constitutively but merely regulatively.68 B 223 The very same thing will also hold for the postulates ofe mpirical think­ ing in general, which together concern the synthesis of mere intuition (of the form of appearance), of perception (of its matter), and of experience (of the relation of these perceptions), namely that they are only regula­ tive principles, and that they differ from the mathematical principles, which are constitutive, not, to be sure, in their certainty, which is estab­ lished a priori in both cases, but yet in the manner of their evidence, i.e., with regard to their intuitiveness (thus also their demonstration).
 
 But what must be remembered about all synthetic principles and es­ pecially noted here is this: that these analogies have their sole signifi­ cance and validity not as principles of the transcendental use of the understanding but merely as principles of its empirical use, hence they A 181 can be proven only as such; consequently the appearances must not be subsumed under the categories per se, but only under their schemata.
 
 For if the objects to which these principles were to be related were things in themselves, then it would be entirely impossible to cognize anything about them synthetically priori. Now it is nothing but appearances a whose complete cognition, to which in the end all priori principles must a come down to, is only possible experience, and consequently those prin­ ciples can have as their goal nothing but the conditions of the unity of B 2 24 empirical cognition in the synthesis of the appearances; but these condi­ tions are thought only in the schema of the pure concept of the under­ standing, and the category contains the function, unrestricted by any sensible condition, of their unity, as of a synthesis in general. These prin­ ciples, therefore, justify us in compounding the appearances only in ac­ cord with an analogy with the logical and general unity of concepts, and hence in the principle itself we make use of the category, but in its exe­ cution (its application to appearances) we set its schema in its place, as the key to its use, or rather we set the latter alongside the former, as its restricting condition, under the name of its formula.
 
 GrojJenverbaltnisse a 298 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
