Systematic representation of all synthetic principles low but only precede B. E.g., I see a ship driven downstream. My per­ ception of its position downstream follows the perception of its position upstream, and it is impossible that in the apprehension of this appear­ ance the ship should first be perceived downstream and afterwards up­ stream. The order in the sequence of the perceptions in apprehension is therefore here determined, and the apprehension is bound to it. In the previous example of a house my perceptions could have begun at its rooftop and ended at the ground, but could also have begun below and ended above; likewise I could have apprehended the manifold of em- B 238 pirical intuition from the right or from the left. In the series of these perceptions there was therefore no determinate order that made it nec- A 193 essary when I had to begin in the apprehension in order to combine the manifold empirically. But this rule is always to be found in the perception of that which happens, and it makes the order of perceptions that follow one another (in the apprehension of this appearance) necessary.
 
 In our case I must therefore derive the subjective sequence of ap­ prehension from the objective sequence of appearances, for otherwise the former would be entirely undetermined and no appearance would be distinguished from any other. The former alone proves nothing about the connection of the manifold in the object,a because it is en­ tirely arbitrary. This connection must therefore consist in the order of the manifold of appearance in accordance with which the apprehension of one thing (that which happens) follows that of the other (which pre­ cedes) in accordance with a rule. Only thereby can I be justified in say­ ing of the appearance itself, and not merely of my apprehension, that a sequence is to be encountered in it, which is to say as much as that I can­ not arrange the apprehension otherwise than in exactly this sequence.
 
 In accordance with such a rule there must therefore lie in that which in general precedes an occurrence the condition for a rule, in accordance with which this occurrence always and necessarily follows; con- B 239 versely, however, I cannot go back from the occurrence and determine (through apprehension) what precedes. For no appearance goes back A 194 from the following point of time to the preceding one, but it is related merely to some preceding point or other; on the contrary, the progress from a given time to the determinately following one is necessary. Hence, since there is still something that follows, I must necessarily relate it to something else in general that precedes, and on which it follows in accordance with a rule, i.e., necessarily, so that the occurrence, as the conditioned, yields a secure indication of some condition, but it is the latter that determines the occurrence.
 
 If one were to suppose that nothing preceded an occurrence that it must follow in accordance with a rule, then all sequence of perception Object a 307 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
