Kant gives examples of mistakes people make when they assume certain things. For example, it’s wrong to think that everything that exists has to be in space and time. It’s also wrong to think that every group of things can be counted like groups in space and time, or that every size is limited. Another mistake is thinking that if something doesn’t exist at some time, that’s always true for that idea. Kant’s point is that trying to get deep knowledge about reality just from how we sense things can lead to confusing problems.

One confusing problem is that if we think the world is in space and time, then the world has to be both limited and unlimited at the same time. But Kant says we can avoid these problems because we can understand reality with our minds without always using space and time as a way to understand things.

At the end, Kant talks about some simple “rules of convenience” that are not about how we sense things but help our minds work better. These rules say that everything happens according to natural order, that we shouldn’t make things more complicated than necessary, and that nothing material is ever really created or destroyed. This list is interesting because it includes two rules (like cause and effect and the idea that stuff doesn’t disappear) that Kant later says are necessary to experience objects. But another rule, known as “Ockham’s razor,” is more like a helpful tool we use for practical reasons, not a must-have rule.

The fact that Kant mixed these important rules and practical rules shows he didn’t yet fully understand how some rules are needed for experience, while others are just helpful ideas. He hadn’t realized that certain ideas, like cause and substance, only give us knowledge when we apply them to what we sense. Also, when he said we can avoid mistakes by not letting the limits of our senses restrict how we use ideas in our minds, he didn’t yet see that these ideas only really work when connected to our senses, and beyond that, they only help us in a practical way.
