'4 cJurists, when they speak of entitlements and claims, distinguish in a legal matter between the questions about what is lawfuld (quidj uris) and a Paragraph number added in the second edition. In the first edition, the second chapter of the "Transcendental Analytic," the "Transcendental Deduction," is divided into three main sections, the first of which is in turn subdivided into two subsections. Apart from a few minor changes in wording, which will be noted, and the addition of the section numbers themselves, the two subsections of the first section are retained in the second edition and are identical until the last paragraph of their second subsection, which is re­ placed by three new paragraphs in the second edition. The second and third sections of the chapter in the first edition are then replaced by an entirely new second section in the second edition, which is broken up into numbered paragraphs § '5 through § 27.
 
 We will present all of this material in the following sequence: the first section as it ap­ peared in both editions, with the last paragraph of the first-edition version followed by the last three paragraphs that replaced it in the second edition; the second and third sec­ tions as they appeared in the first edition; then the second section, consisting of num­ bered parts § '5 through § 27, as it appeared in the second edition.
 
 Principien b , The following notes are inserted here in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Consciousness and inner sense are different. 'I think' is spontaneity and does not depend on any object. The representation, however, with which I think, must be given to me antecedently in intuition (through imagination). With regard to it I am affected." (E XLVI, p. 25; 23=26) "It must be proved that if there were no sensible intuition a priori, and if this were not the form of sensibility in the subject, with which all appearances must be in accord, then: " 1. No categories would have significance.
 
 "2. From mere categories no synthetic a priori propositions at all would be possible." (EXLVII, p. 25; 23'26) was Rechtens ist d 219 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
