On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> us as something external. But since I want to observe the mere I through the change in all my representations, I have once again no cor­ relate other than Myself for my comparisons with the general condi­ tions of my consciousness; I can therefore give nothing but tautological answers to all questions, because I substitute my concept and its unity for the properties pertaining to my self as an object,a and thus merely presuppose what one demanded to know.
 
 The fourth paralogism of the ideality (of outer relation).b That whose existence can be inferred only as a cause of given percep­ tions has only a doubtful existence: Now all outer appearances are of this kind: their existence cannot be A 367 immediately perceived, but can be inferred only as the cause of given perceptions: Thus the existence of all objects of outer sense is doubtful. This un­ certainty I call the ideality of outer appearances, and the doctrine of this ideality is called idealism, in comparison with which the assertion of a possible certainty of objects of outer sense is called dualism.
 
 Criticism of the fourth paralogism of transcendental psychology.
 
 First we will subject the premises to examination. We can rightly assert that only what is in ourselves can be immediately perceived, and that my own existence alone could be the object of a mere perception. Thus the existence of a real object outside me (if this last word is taken in an in­ tellectual signification) is never given directly in perception, but can only be added in thought to what is a modification of inner sense as its external cause, and hence can only be inferred. Therefore Descartes also rightly limited all perception in the narrowest sense to the proposition "I (as a thinking being) am."30 Thus it is clear that since the external is A368 not in me, I cannot encounter it in my apperception, hence not in any perception, which is properly only a determination of apperception.
 
 Thus I cannot really perceive external things, but only infer their ex­ istence from my inner perception, insofar as I regard this as the effect of which something external is the proximate cause. But now the infer­ ence from a given effect to its determinate cause is always uncertain, since the effect can have arisen from more than one cause. Accordingly, a Object b Verba/tnisses 425 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
