Ch. II. Sec. I might be able to have insight into the spiritual nature of the soul (and with that into its immortality), yet that cannot be counted on either as an explanatory ground of the appearances in this life or for the special A 799/ B 827 constitution of the future state, because our concept of an incorporeal nature is merely negative, and does not in the least expand our cogni足 tion nor offer any suitable material for any conclusions except merely fictional ones, which cannot be sanctioned by philosophy. Third, even if the existence of a highest intelligence were proved, we would, to be sure, be able to make that which is purposive in the arrangement and order of the world comprehensible in general, but would by no means be authorized to derive from it any particular arrangement and order, or boldly to infer one where it is not perceived, for it is a necessary rule of the speculative use of reason not to bypass natural causes and aban足 don that about which we could be instructed by experience in order to derive something that we know from something that entirely surpasses all our knowledge. n In a word, these three propositions always remain transcendent for speculative reason, and have no immanent use, i.e., one that is permissible for objects of experience and therefore useful for us in some way, but are rather, considered in themselves, entirely idle even though extremely difficult efforts of our reason.
 
 If, then, these three cardinal propositions are not at all necessary for our knowing, and yet are insistently recommended to us by our reason, A 800 / B 828 their importance must really concern only the practical.
 
 Everything is practical that is possible through freedom. But if the conditions for the exercise of our free choiceb are empirical, then in that case reason can have none but a regulative use, and can only serve to produce the unity of empirical laws, as, e.g., in the doctrine of prudence the unification of all ends that are given to us by our inclinations into the single end of happiness and the harmony of the means for attain足 ing that end constitute the entire business of reason, which can there足 fore provide none but pragmatic laws of free conduct for reaching the ends recommended to us by the senses, and therefore can provide no pure laws that are determined completely a priori. Pure practical laws, on the contrary, whose end is given by reason completely a priori, and which do not command under empirical conditions but absolutely, would be products of pure reason. Of this sort, however, are the moral laws; thus these alone belong to the practical use of reason and permit a canon.
 
 Thus the entire armament of reason, in the undertaking that one can call pure philosophy, is in fact directed only at the three problems that have been mentioned. These themselves, however, have in turn their a Kenntnis b Willkiihr 674 On the ultimate end of pure reason more remote aim, namely, what is to be done if the will is free, if there is a God, and if there is a future world.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
