See Discursus praeliminaris, §§ 56, 47, 59; Blackwell, pp. 33-5.
 
 48 Here Kant is subsuming rational physics and rational psychology under the general title of rational physiology, suggesting that there are constructive doctrines of rational physics and psychology, expounding the a priori con­ ditions of empirical judgments in physics and psychology, that can replace the merely dialectical transcendent doctrines of rational cosmology and ra­ tional psychology (as well as rational theology) which he has already re­ jected in the "Dialectic." However, although Kant was to go on to produce his "rational physics" in the Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science of 1786, there he would deny that any rational psychology (Seelenwissenschaft) at all is possible, on the ground that inner sense, unlike outer sense, does not yield to mathematization, and thus there can be no genuine science of inner sense (see 4:471). But that oft-cited argument is undercut by the present paragraph, especially Kant's footnote, which distinguishes between the a priori principles of rational physics and the mathematical principles of general physics, which are in fact underwritten by the principles of rational physics; for there could still be a priori principles of inner sense, under­ writing the a priori application of concepts of causation and interaction to psychological phenomena without yielding any mathematically interesting principles for these phenomena -indeed, that is precisely what the "Analogies of Experience" and "Refutation of Idealism" have done.
 
 49 In the systems of Wolff and Baumgarten, empirical psychology was in­ cluded as a separate chapter alongside rational psychology; the latter dealt primarily with the immateriality and immortality of the soul, while the former tried to describe the experience of thought and passion. But here Kant seems to have in mind the philosophical project of Locke, in which the "original, certainty, and extent of human knowledge" were to be deter­ mined by the "historical, plain method" of introspective psychology (see An Essay concerning Human Understanding, bk. I, ch. i, § 2), as well as Locke's successors, both British, such as Hume, but also Germans influenced by Lockean and Humean psychology, such as Sulzer and Johann Nicolaus Tetens (1736?-1807), whose Philosophische Versuche (Leipzig: 1777) provided Kant with the model of empirical cognitive psychology that Kant under­ girded with this transcendental psychology in the "subjective" side of the transcendental deduction of the categories, especially in the first edition.
 
 50 Leibniz constructed this comparison between himself and Locke on the one hand and Plato and Aristotle on the other at the opening of the pref­ ace to his New Essays conce17zing Human Understanding (p. 47 in the transla­ tion by Bennett and Remnant), a book that made a deep impression on Kant at the time of its posthumous publication in 1765.
 
 5 I Kant refers here to An Essay concerning Human Understanding, book IV; chapter X, § I, where Locke says of the existence of God that "its Evidence be (if I mistake not) equal to mathematical Certainty." Locke does not make the same claim about knowledge of the immortality of the mind or spirit, although this chapter does include an argument that matter is not eternal (§ 18).
 
 756 * GLOSSARY German -English Abfolge succession (cf.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
