It is exactly the same with the two answers to the question about the magnitude of the world in space. For if it is infinite and unbounded, then it is too big for every possible empirical concept. If it is finite and bounded, then you can still rightfully ask: What determines this bound­ ary? Empty space is not a correlate of things that subsists by itself, and it cannot be a condition with which you can stop, still less an empirical condition that constitutes a part of a possible experience. (For who can have an experience of what is absolutely empty?) But for the absolute totality of the empirical synthesis it is always demanded that the un­ conditioned be an empirical concept. Thus a bounded world is too small for your concept.
 
 Second, if every appearance in space (matter) consists of infinitely many parts, then the regress of division is always too big for your con­ cept; and if the division of space should cease at any one member of the division (the simple), then it is too small for the idea of the uncon­ ditioned. For this member always allows of still another regress to fur­ ther parts contained in it.
 
 Third, if you assume that in everything that happens in the world there is nothing but a sequence occurring according to laws of nature, then the causality of the cause is always once again something that hap­ pens, and that necessitates your regress to still higher causes, and hence the prolonging of the series of conditions a parte priori without cessa­ tion. Mere efficient nature in the synthesis of world-events is thus too a big for all your concepts.
 
 If you choose now and then to admit occurrences produced from themselves, hence generated through freedom, then by an unavoid­ able law of nature the question "Why?" will pursue you, and require you, in accord with the causal laws of experience, to go beyond this point; then you will find that such a totality of connection is too small for your necessary empirical concept.
 
 Fourth: If you assume an absolutely necessary being (whether it be the world itself, or something in the world, or the cause of the world), then you must place it at a time infinitely far removed from every given point in time, because otherwise it would be dependent on another and an older existence. But then this existence is inaccessible and too big for your empirical concept, and you could never arrive at it through any regress, however far it might continue.
 
 But if, in your opinion, everything that belongs to the world a wirkende 509 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
