Pt. II. Div. I. Bk I. Ch. I tained under it) is represented as a whole divided into parts (the subor­ dinated concepts), and, since none of these can be contained under any other, they are thought of as coordinated with one another, not sub­ ordinated, so that they do not determine each other unilaterally, as in a series, but reciprocally, as in an aggregate (if one member of the di­ vision is posited, all the rest are excluded, and vice versa).
 
 Now a similar connection is thought of in an entirety of things, since one is not subordinated,a as effect, under another, as the cause of its existence, but is rather coordinatedb with the other simultaneously and reciprocally as cause with regard to its determination (e.g., in a body, the parts of which reciprocally attract yet also repel each other), which is an entirely different kind of connection from that which is to be found in the mere relation' of cause to effect (of ground to con­ sequence), in which the consequence does not reciprocally determine the ground and therefore does not constitute a whole with the latter (as the world-creator with the world). The understanding follows the same B I I 3 procedure when it represents the divided sphere of a concept as when it thinks of a thing as divisible, and just as in the first case the members of the division exclude each other and yet are connected in one sphere, so in the latter case the parts are represented as ones to which existence (as substances) pertains to each exclusively of the others, and which are yet connected in one whole.
 
 § 12.
 
 But there is also yet another chapter in the transcendental philosophy of the ancients that contains pure concepts of the understanding that, although they are not reckoned among the categories, nevertheless ac­ cording to them should also count as priori concepts of objects, in a which case, however, they would increase the number of the categories, which cannot be. These are expounded in the proposition, so famous among the scholastics: quodlibet ens est unum, verum, bonum.d Now al­ though the use of this principlee for inferences has turned out to be very meager (they have yielded merely tautological propositions), so that in modern times it has been customary to grant it a place in metaphysics almost solely by courtesy, nevertheless a thought that has sustained it­ self so long, no matter how empty it seems, always deserves an investi­ gation of its origin, and justifies the conjecture that it must have its " untergeordnet b beygeordnet , Verhaitnis d Every being is one, true, and good.
 
 Princips e 216 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
