Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II ity of the necessary cause of the alterations, hence the cause itself, be­ longs to time,a hence to appearance (in which alone time is possible, as its form); consequently, it cannot be thought as detached from the world of sense as the sum total of all appearances. Thus in the world itself there is contained something absolutely necessary (whether as the whole world-series itself or as a part of it).
 
 A4S6/B484 Remark on the Fourth Antinomy I. On the Thesis In order to prove the existence of a necessary being, I am here obliged to use no argument except the cosmological one, which ascends from the conditioned in appearance to the unconditioned in concept by view­ ing the latter as the necessary condition for the absolute totality of the series. It belongs to another principleb of reason to attempt the proof using only the idea of a being that is supreme over all others, and such a proof will therefore have to be put forward separately.
 
 Now the pure cosmological proof can establish the existence of a necessary being in no other way than by leaving it unsettled whether this being is the world itself or a thing distinct from it. For in order to ascertain the latter, principles would be required that are no longer cos­ mological and do not continue in the series of appearances, but proceed from concepts of contingent beings in general (insofar as they are con­ sidered merely as objects of understanding), and a principle connecting such beings with a necessary being through mere concepts; all this be­ longs to a transcendent philosophy, for which this is still not the place.
 
 But if one begins the proof cosmologically, by grounding it on the se­ ries of appearances and the regress in this series in accordance with em­ pirical laws of causality, then one cannot later shift from this and go over to something that does not belong to the series as one of its mem­ bers. For something regarded as a condition must be taken in just the A4S8/B486 same significance as it has in the relatione of conditioned to its condi­ tion in the series, if it is to lead this series to its highest condition through a continuous progress. Now if this relation is sensible and be­ longs to a possible empirical use of the understanding, then the highest condition or cause can conclude the regress only in accordance with laws of sensibility, hence only as something belonging to the time-se­ ries, and the necessary being must be regarded as the supreme member of the world-series.
 
 Nevertheless, some have taken the liberty of making such a shift a Fifth edition: "to a time" b Princip , Relation 492 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
