On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> ness: "I think." For this I is the primary subject, i.e., substance, it is sim- A399 pIe, etc. But then these would have to be mere propositions of experience, which, in the absence of a universal rule expressing in general and priori the conditions of the possibility of thinking, coulda nevertheless a contain no such predicates (since these are not empirical). In this way, my insight (so plausible at the start) into the nature of a thinking being, and indeed judged from mere concepts, becomes suspicious, even though I still have not discovered any mistake in it.
 
 Further investigation, however, going back behind the origin of these attributes that I ascribe to Myself as a thinking being in general, can dis足 cover this error. They are nothing more than pure categories, through which I never think a determinate object, but rather only the unity of representations in order to determine their object. Without an intuition to ground it, the category alone cannot yield any concept of an object; for only through intuition is an object given, which is then thought in accordance with the category. If I declare a thing to be a substance in appearance, predicates of its intuition must be given to me previously, in which I distinguish the substratum (the thing itself) from that which merely depends on it. When I call a thing simple in appearance, then A 400 by that I understand that its intuition is of course a part of the appearance, but cannot itself be further divided, etc. But if something is cognized as simple only in the concept and not in appearance, then I really have no cognition of the object, but only of my concept, which I make of something in general that is not susceptible of any real intuition. I say only that I think something entirely simple, because I really do not know anything further to say about it than merely that it is something.
 
 Now mere apperception ("I") is substance in concept, simple in concept, etc., and thus all these psychological theorems are indisputably correct. Nevertheless, one by no means thereby cognizes anything about the soul that one really wants to know, for all these predicates are not valid of intuition at all, and therefore cannot have any consequences that could be applied to objects of experience; hence they are com足 pletelyempty. For that concept of substance does not teach me that the soul endures for itself, that it is not a part of outer intuitions that cannot be further divided and hence could not arise or perish through any natural alterations -pureh properties that could provide acquaintance with the soul in the connection of the experience, and disclosure con足 cerning its origin and future state. Now if! say through mere category: A401 "The soul is a simple substance," then it is clear that since the under足 standing's naked concept of substance contains nothing beyond the fact n Kant's verb is singular, but its subject appears to be plural, namely the relative pronoun referring to "propositions of experience." b tauter 441 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
