Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> sentations of intuition stand under the first principle insofar as they are given to us, and under the second insofar as they must be capable of being combined in one consciousness; for without that nothing could B 137 be thought or cognized through them, since the given representations would not have in common the acta of apperception, I think, and thereby would not be grasped together in a self-consciousness.
 
 Understanding is, generally speaking, the faculty of cognitions.
 
 These consist in the determinate relation of given representations to an object." An object,c however, is that in the concept of which the mani­ fold of a given intuition is united.37 Now, however, all unification of representations requires unity of consciousness in the synthesis of them. Consequently the unity of consciousness is that which alone con­ stitutes the relation of representations to an object, thus their objective validity, and consequently is that which makes them into cognitions and on which even the possibility of the understanding rests.
 
 The first pure cognition of the understanding, therefore, on which the whole of the rest of its use is grounded, and that is at the same time also entirely independent from all conditions of sensible intuition, is the principle of the original synthetic unity of apperception. Thus the mere form of outer sensible intuition, space, is not yet cognition at all; it only gives the manifold of intuition priori for a possible cognition.
 
 a But in order to cognize something in space, e.g., a line, I must draw it, and thus synthetically bring about a determinate combination of the B 138 given manifold, so that the unity of this action is at the same time the unity of consciousness (in the concept of a line), and thereby is an objectd (a determinate space) first cognized. The synthetic unity of con­ sciousness is therefore an objective condition of all cognition, not merely something I myself need in order to cognize an objecte but rather something under which every intuition must stand in order to become an objectf for me, since in any other way, and without this synthesis, the manifold would not be united in one consciousness.
 
 This last proposition is, as we said, itself analytic, although, to be sure, it makes synthetic unity into the condition of all thinking; for it says nothing more than that all my representations in any given intu­ ition must stand under the condition under which alone I can ascribe sciousness, as synthetic and yet as original, is to be found in them. This sin­ gularity of theirs is important in its application (see § 25).
 
 a Actus Object b Object C Object d , Object f Object 249 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
