Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> logical unity of the subject (simplicity), but I do not cognize the real simplicity of my subject. Just as the proposition "I am substance" signi­ fies nothing but the pure category, of which I can make no (empirical) use in concreto, so is it permitted to me to say, "I am a simple substance," i.e., a substance the representation of which never contains a synthesis of the manifold; but this concept, or even this proposition, teaches us not the least bit in regard to myself as an object of experience, because the concept of substance is used only as a function of synthesis, without an intuition being subsumed under it, hence without an object; a and it is valid only of the condition of our cognition, but not of any particular object that is to be specified. We will perform an experiment concern­ ing the supposed usefulness of this proposition.
 
 Everyone must admit that the assertion of the simple nature of the soul is of unique value only insofar as through it I distinguish this sub­ ject from all matter, and consequently except it from the perishability to which matter is always subjected.26 It is really only to this use that the above proposition is applied, hence it is often expressed thus: the soul is A357 not corporeal. Now ifI can show that even if one concedes all objective validity to this cardinal proposition of the rational doctrine of the soul (that everything which thinks is a simple substance) in its pure signifi­ cance as a merely rational judgment (from pure categories), neverthe­ less not the least use of this proposition can be made in respect of its dissimilarity to or affinity with matter, then this would be the same as if I had consigned this supposed psychological insight to the field of mere ideas, which lack the reality of an objective use.
 
 In the transcendental aesthetic we have undeniably proved that bod­ ies are mere appearances of our outer sense, and not things in them­ selves. In accord with this, we can rightfully say that our thinking subject is not corporeal, meaning that since it is represented as an ob­ ject of our inner sense, insofar as it thinks it could not be an object of outer sense, i.e., it could not be an appearance in space. Now this is to say as much as that thinking beings, as such, can never come before us among outer appearances, or: we cannot intuit their thoughts, their consciousness, their desires, etc. externally; for all this belongs before inner sense. In fact this argument seems to be the natural and popular A 358 one, by which even the commonest understanding seems always to have been pleased and thereby to have begun very early to consider souls as beings wholly distinct from their bodies.
 
 But now although extension, impenetrability, composition and mo­ tion -in short, everything our outer senses can transmit to us -areb not thoughts, feelings, inclinations or decisions, and cannot contain them, Object a sein, which makes no grammatical sense. Following Erdmann, we read sind.
 
 b 420 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
