Impossibility of a cosmological proof as such an object; rather, as a mere idea it must find both its seat and its solution in the nature of reason, and so it can be investigated;a for rea­ son consists just in the fact that we can give an account of all our con­ cepts, opinions and assertions, either on objective grounds or, if they are a mere illusion, on subjective ones.
 
 Discovery and explanation of the dialectical illusion in all transcendental proofs of the existence of a necessary being.
 
 Both the proofs previously cited were attempted transcendentally, i.e., independently of empirical principles.b For although the cosmological proof is grounded on an experience in general, it is not carried out on the basis of any particular constitution of experience, but of pure prin­ ciples of reason C in relation to an existence given through empirical consciousness in general; and even this introduction is an occasion for A6rS/B643 basing itself on entirely pure concepts. Now what in these transcendental proofs is the cause of the dialectical but natural illusion that connects the concepts of necessity and highest reality and that realizes and hypostatizes that which can be only an idea? What causes it to be unavoidable to assume something among existing things to be in itself necessary, and yet at the same time to shrink back from the existence of such a being as an abyss? And how is one to bring reason to an understanding of itself over this matter, so that from a vacillating state of different approval it may achieve one of calm insight?
 
 There is something exceedingly remarkable in the fact that when one presupposes something existing, one can find no way around the con­ clusion that something also exists necessarily. It is on this entirely nat­ ural (though not for this reason secure) inference that the cosmological argument rested. On the contrary, if I assume the concept of anything I like, then I find that its existence can never be represented by me as absolutely necessary, and that whatever may exist, nothing hinders me from thinking its non-being; hence although for the existing in general I must assume something necessary, I cannot think any single thing itself as necessary in itself. That means: in going back to the conditions A6r6/B644 of existing I can never complete the existing without assuming a necessary being,d but I can never begin with this being.
 
 If I must think something necessary for existing things in general but am not warranted in thinking any thing in itself as necessary, then it fol­ lows unavoidably from this that necessity and contingency do not pera erforscht; cf. unerforschlich (inscrutable).
 
 Principien b , Vernunftprincipien d In the first edition: " ...w ithout necessarily assuming a being ... " 575 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
