In later works, such as the Critique of Practical Reason (1788) and the Religion within the Boundaries of Mere Reason (1793), Kant completes this theory with the further argument that only the inexorable awareness of our obligation to live up to the moral law, which is given spontaneously by our own reason and which we all acknowledge (even if only in the breach), can prove the reality of our freedom, which is the necessary condition of the possibility of the moral demand we make upon ourselves. Yet this fur­ ther argument presupposes the first Critique's argument that we cannot ground the principles of natural science themselves without at the same time revealing that their scope is limited to mere appearances.
 
 Kant's bold attempt to resolve with one stroke two of the most press­ ing problems of modern philosophy has seldom been accepted by his successors without qualification. Some feel that Kant's identification of the basic principles of science with the fundamental principles of human understanding itself betrays too much confidence in the specif­ ically Newtonian mechanistic physics that prevailed at his time, leaving too little room for subsequent scientific developments, such as the the­ ory of general relativity and quantum mechanics. Others have felt that Kant's reduction of the laws of science to the laws of human thought is not an adequate account of the truly objective validity of science. Few have felt comfortable with the idea that the possibility of freedom could be defended by placing the real arena of human decision making behind a veil of ignorance, and many have felt that the idea that human free­ dom is our ultimate value but that it can be realized only through ad­ herence to law is a strange and paradoxical one. Yet at the same time, broad elements of Kant's philosophy have become indispensable and therefore often almost invisible assumptions of the modern frame of mind. No modern thinker can believe that the human mind is merely a passive recorder of external fact, or a "mirror of nature."'9 But although many hold that since we have no way of stepping outside the human point of view, it may not be as easy as Kant thought to separate out our subjective contributions to the constitution of nature, yet every modern philosophy holds in some form or other the Kantian thesis that human beings make an active contribution to their knowledge. And although few defend human freedom through a rigid Kantian distinction be­ tween phenomenal appearance and noumenal reality, even fewer have thought that the assumption of causal determinism in science precludes conceiving of ourselves as agents who make decisions according to what seem to us to be the most rational principles of value. Thus many have accepted in some form the Kantian idea that there is a fundamental dif22 Introduction ference between the standpoints of the actor and the spectator,20 and that this difference is crucial to the solution of the problem of free will.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
