Many of these were revolutionary developments both in Kant's own thought and in the his­ tory of Western philosophy. Even so, the Critique of Pure Reason, as well as the further "critical" works that were to follow it, have to be seen as the product of a continuous evolution at least since 1755, a process in which Kant never fully subscribed to the Wolffian orthodoxy and in which he continued revising his position both substantively and methodologically until he arrived at the Critique.
 
 Moreover, even after the Critique was first published, Kant's thought continued to evolve: as we will see below, there are major differences between the first and second editions of the work (both presented in their entirety in the present translation). Indeed, even after the publi­ cation of the second edition, Kant continued to revise and refine both his views and his arguments, in published work such as the Critique of Judgment and in the manuscripts on which he was still working at the end of his life (later published as the Opus postumum).22 Further, it should by no means be thought that Kant's mature philosophy, as first expressed in the Critique of Pure Reason, represents an outright rejection of the philosophy of his predecessors, above all of the original philoso­ phy of Leibniz. On the contrary, Kant's philosophy can be thought of as an attempt to synthesize Leibniz's vision of the preestablished har­ mony of the principles of nature and the principles of grace3 with the substance of Newtonian science and the moral and political insights of Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778). To the extent that Kant was a critic of the Leibnizian-Wolffian philosophy, his criticisms came not only from Hume but even more from 'Volff's Pietist critic Christian August Crus ius (1715-1775). These critical forerunners led Kant to transform Leibniz's vision of a harmonious world of monads under the rule of God and Rousseau's vision of a social contract expressing a gen­ eral will into ideals of human reason, neither of which can simply be as­ serted to exist in well-founded cognitive judgments made within the limits of human sensibility and understanding, but both of which can and must represent the ultimate even if never completely attainable goals of human theoretical and practical thought and conduct.
 
 We cannot offer here a full account of Kant's intellectual develop­ ment. But we will comment briefly on a number of the works Kant pub­ lished through 1770, in order to point out some of the ideas that were incorporated into the Critique of Pure Reason as well as some that had to be rejected or overcome before the Critique could take shape. We will then comment equally briefly on some of the evidence for the develop­ ment of Kant's thought in the so-called "silent decade" between 1770 and 1781. This discussion of the genesis of the Critique is provided to 24 Introduction help interpret the intentions of the work as well as to cast some light on the complexities of its organization and argumentation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
