That the straight line between two points is the shortest is a synthetic proposi­ tion. For my concept of the straight contains nothing of quantity, but only a quality.I8 The concept of the shortest is therefore entirely addi­ tional to it, and cannot be extracted out of the concept of the straight line by any analysis. Help must here be gotten from intuition, by means of which alone the synthesis is possible.
 
 To be sure, a few principles that the geometers presuppose are actually analytic and rest on the principle of contradiction; but they alsoa only serve, as identical propositions, for the chain of method and not as principles,b e.g., a a, the whole is equal to itself, or (a + b) i.e., the B 17 = > a, whole is greater than its part. And yet even these, although they are valid in accordance with mere concepts, are admitted in mathematics only because they can be exhibited in intuition. 19 What usually makes us believe here that the predicate of such apodictic judgments already lies in our concept, and that the judgment is therefore analytic, is merely the ambiguity of the expression. We should, namely, add a certain predicate to a given concept in thought, and this necessity already attaches to the concepts. But the question is not what we should think in addition to the given concept, but what we actually think in it, though only obscurely, and there it is manifest that the predicate certainly adheres to those concepts necessarily, though not as thought in the concept itself, C but by means of an intuition that must be added to the concept.
 
 2. Natural science (Physica) contains within itself synthetic a pri­ ori judgments as principles.d I will adduce only a couple of proposi­ tions as examples, such as the proposition that in all alterations of the corporeal world the quantity of matter remains unaltered, or that in all communication of motion effect and counter-effect must always be equal. In both of these not only the necessity, thus their a priori origin, but also that they are synthetic propositions is clear. For in the concept B 18 of matter I do not think persistence, but only its presence in space through the filling of space. Thus I actually go beyond the concept of matter in order to add something to it a priori that I did not think in it.
 
 The proposition is thus not analytic, but synthetic, and nevertheless thought priori, and likewise with the other propositions of the pure a part of natural science.
 
 3. In metaphysics, even if one regards it as a science that has thus far a "auch" added to text from Prolegomena (4:269).
 
 Principien b , "als im Begnffe selbst gedacht" substimted here for the word "unmittelbar" in the Prolegomena (4:269).
 
 Principien d 145 Introduction <B> merely been sought but is nevertheless indispensable because of the na­ ture of human reason, synthetic a priori cognitions are supposed to be contained, and it is not concerned merely with analyzing concepts that we make of things a priori and thereby clarifying them analytically, but we want to amplify our cognition a priori; to this end we must make use of such principles that add something to the given concepts that was not contained in them, and through synthetic a priori judgments go so far beyond that experience itself cannot follow us that far, e.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
