Impossibility of physico-theologial proof nothing other than possible experience, and hence merely to objects of the world of sense, and they can have a significance only in regard to A622/B6S0 them.
 
 The present world discloses to us such an immeasurable showplace of manifoldness, order, purposiveness, and beauty, whether one pursues these in the infinity of space or in the unlimited division of it, 109 that in accordance with even the knowledgea about it that our weak under­ standing can acquire, all speech concerning so many and such unfath­ omable wonders must lose its power to express, all numbers their power to measure, and even our thoughts lack boundaries, so that our judg­ ment upon the whole must resolve itself into a speechless, but nonethe­ less eloquent, astonishment. IIO Everywhere we see a chain of effects and causes, of ends and means, regularity in coming to be and perishing, and because nothing has entered by itselfb into the state in which it finds itself, this state always refers further to another thing as its cause, which makes necessary just the same further inquiry, so that in such a way the entire wholec would have to sink into the abyss of nothingness if one did not assume something subsisting for itself originally and in­ dependently outside this infinite contingency, which supports it and at the same time, as the cause of its existence, secures its continuation.
 
 This highest cause (in regard to all things of the world) -how great should one think it is? We are not acquainted with the world in its whole content, still less do we know how to estimate its magnitude by A623/B65I comparison with everything possible. But since in respect to causality we need an ultimate and supreme being, what hinders us from at the same time positing in it a degree of perfection exceeding everything else that is possible? This we can easily effect, though to be sure only through the fragile outline of an abstract concept, if we represent all possible perfection united in it as a single substance -which concept is favorable to our reason in its parsimony of principles,d not subject to any contradictions, and even salutary for the extension of the use of our reason within experience, through the guidance such an idea gives to order and purposiveness, but is nowhere contrary to experience in any decisive way.
 
 This proof always deserves to be named with respect. It is the oldest, clearest and the most appropriate to common human reason. It enlivens the study of nature, just as it gets its existence from this study and through it receives ever renewed force. It brings in ends and aims where they would not have been discovered by our observation itself, and exKenntnisse a von selbst b das ganze All C d Principien 579 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
