On the pure concepts of the understanding a tent is concerned. The synthesis of a manifold, however, (whether it be given empirically or priorz) first brings forth a cognition, which to a be sure may initially still be raw and confused, and thus in need of analysis; yet the synthesis alone is that which properly collects the elements for cognitions and unifies them into a certain content; it is there- A 78 fore the first thing to which we have to attend if we wish to judge about the first origin of our cognition.
 
 Synthesis in general is, as we shall subsequently see, the mere effect of the imagination, of a blind though indispensable function of the souI,b without which we would have no cognition at all, but of which we are seldom even conscious. Yet to bring this synthesis to concepts is a function that pertains to the understanding, and by means of which it first provides cognition in the proper sense." Now pure synthesis, generally represented, yields the pure con- B I04 cept of the understanding. By this synthesis, however, I understand that which rests on a ground of synthetic unity priori; thus our counting (as a is especially noticeable in the case of larger numbers) is a synthesis in accordance with concepts, since it takes place in accordance with a common ground of unity (e.g., the decad). Under this concept, therefore, the synthesis of the manifold becomes necessary.
 
 Different representations are brought under one concept analyti­ cally (a business treated by general logic). Transcendental logic, how­ ever, teaches how to bring under concepts not the representations but the pure synthesis of representations. The first thing that must be given to us priori for the cognition of all objects is the manifold of a pure intuition; the synthesis of this manifold by means of the imagi- A 79 nation is the second thing, but it still does not yield cognition. The concepts that give this pure sythesis unity, and that consist solely in the representation of this necessary synthetic unity, are the third thing necessary for cognition of an object that comes before us, and they depend on the understanding. 10 The same function that gives unity to the different representations in a judgment also gives unity to the mere synthesis of different repre- BIOS sentations in an intuition, which, expressed generally, is called the pure concept of understanding. I I The same understanding, therefore, and indeed by means of the very same actions through which it brings the logical form of a judgment into concepts by means of the analytical unity, also brings a transcendental content into its representations by means of a In the first edition, the right-hand running head is "Section III. On the pure concepts of understanding or categories" In his copy of the first edition Kant replaces this clause with "of a function of the un­ b derstanding" (E XLI, p. 24; 23:45).
 
 , in eigentlicher Bedeutung 211 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
