Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III rather in order to cognize its existence from this purposiveness which it seeks in the essence of natural things, where possible in the essence of all things in general as well, and hence to cognize it as absolutely necessary. VV'hether or not this latter may succeed, the idea always re­ mains correct, and so does its use, if it has been restricted to the con­ ditions of a merely regulative principle. a Complete purposive unity is perfection (absolutely considered). If we do not find this in the essence of the things which constitute the whole object of experience, i.e., all our objectively valid cognition, hence in universal and necessary laws of nature, then how will we infer straight­ away from this to the idea of a highest and absolutely necessary per­ fection in an original being, which is the origin of all causality? The greatest systematic unity, consequently also purposive unity, is the school and even the ground of the possibility of the greatest use of human reason. Hence the idea of it is inseparably bound up with the A695/ B 723 essence ofo ur reason. The very same idea, therefore, is legislative for us, and thus it is very natural to assume a corresponding legislative reason (intelleetus archetypus) from which all systematic unity of nature, as the object of our reason, is to be derived.
 
 In the Antinomy of Pure Reason, we took the opportunity to say that all questions that pure reason poses must absolutely be answerable,I27 and that the excuse of the limits of our cognition, which in many ques­ tions of nature is as unavoidable as it is proper, cannot be permitted here, because here the questions are not laid before us by the nature of things but only through the nature of reason, and they are solely about its internal arrangement. We can now confirm this assertion, which seemed bold at first glance, regarding the two questions in which pure reason has its greatest interest, and thereby bring our consideration of reason's dialectic to full completion.
 
 Thus if one asks (in respect of a transcendental theology)* first A696/B724 whether there is anything different from the world which contains the ground of the world order and its connection according to universal laws, then the answer is: Without a doubt. For the world is a sum of appearances, and so there has to be some transcendental ground for it, A695 /B 723 * What I have said earlier about the psychological idea and its proper vocationb as a principle' for the merely regulative use of reason exempts me from any particularly lengthy discussion of the transcendental illusion according to which that systematic unity of all manifoldness of inner sense is represented hypostatically. The procedure here is very similar to the one that the Critique observes in regard to the theological ideal.
 
 Princip a Bestimmung b , Princip 618 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
