However, we must always seek the enemy here in ourselves. For specu­ lative reason in its transcendental use is dialectical in itself. The objec­ tions that are to be feared lie in ourselves. We must search them out like old but unexpired claims, in order to ground perpetual peace on their annihilation. External quiet is only illusory. The seed of the attacks, which lies in the nature of human reason, must be extirpated; but how can we extirpate it if we do not give it freedom, indeed even nourish- A 778/ B 806 ment, to send out shoots, so that we can discover it and afterwards eradicate it with its root? Thus, think up for yourself the objections which have not yet occurred to any opponent, and even lend him the weapons or concede him the most favorable position that he could desire. There is nothing in this to fear, though much to hope, namely that you will come into a possession that can never be attacked in the future.
 
 Now to your complete armament there also belong the hypotheses of pure reason, which, although they are merely leaden weapons (for they have not been steeled through any law of experience), are nevertheless just as capable as those which any opponent might use against you. If, therefore, you come up against the difficulty for the immaterial nature of the soul which is not subjected to any corporeal transformation (as­ sumed in some other, non-speculative context), the difficulty, namely, that experience seems to prove that both the elevation as well as the de­ rangement of our mental powers are merely different modifications of our organs, you can weaken the power of this proof by assuming that our body is nothing but the fundamental appearance to which the en­ tire faculty of sensibility and therewith all thinking are related, as their condition, in our present state (in life). Separation from the body would be the end of this sensible use of your cognitive power and the beginning of the intellectual. The body would thus be not the cause of think- A 779/ B 807 ing but a merely restricting condition on it, thus it would be regarded as furthering the sensible and animal but for that reason all the more as hindering the pure and spiritual life, and the dependence of the former on the corporeal constitution would prove nothing about the dependence of life in its entirety on the state of our organs. But you could go even further, and indeed raise new doubts, which have either not been suggested before or else have not been driven far enough.
 
 The contingency of conception, which in humans as well as in irra­ tional creatures depends on opportunity, but besides this also on nour­ ishment, on government, on its moods and caprices, even on vices, presents a great difficulty for the opinion of the eternal duration of a creature whose life has first begun under circumstances so trivial and so entirely dependent on our liberty. As far as the duration of the entire species (here on earth) is concerned, this difficulty amounts to little, 663 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
