III.
 
 On the division of general logic into analytic and dialectic.
 
 The old and famous question with which the logicians were to be dri­ ven into a corner and brought to such a pass that they must either fall into a miserable circlea or else confess their ignorance, hence the van- A 58 ity of their entire art, is this: What is truth? The nominal definition of truth, namely that it is the agreement of cognition with its object, is here granted and presupposed; but one demands to know what is the general and certain criterion of the truth of any cognition.
 
 It is already a great and necessary proof of cleverness or insight to know what one should reasonably ask. For if the question is absurd in itself and demands unnecessary answers, then, besides the embarrassment of the one who proposes it, it also has the disadvantage of mis­ leading the incautious listener into absurd answers, and presenting the ridiculous sight (as the ancients said) of one person milking a billy-goat B83 while the other holds a sieve underneath.3 If truth consists in the agreement of a cognition with its object, then this object must thereby be distinguished from others; for a cognition is false if it does not agree with the object to which it is related even if it contains something that could well be valid of other objects. Now a general criterion of truth would be that which was valid of all cognitions without any distinction among their objects. But it is clear that since with such a criterion one abstracts from all content of cognition (relation to its object), b yet truth concerns precisely this content, it would be A 59 completely impossible and absurd to ask for a mark of the truth of this content of cognition, and thus it is clear that a sufficient and yet at the same time general sign of truth cannot possibly be provided. Since above we have called the content of a cognition its matter, one must therefore say that no general sign of the truth of the matter of cognition can be demanded, because it is self-contradictory.
 
 But concerning the mere form of cognition (setting aside all content), it is equally clear that a logic, so far as it expounds the general and nec- B 84 essary rules of understanding, must present criteria of truth in these very rules. For that which contradicts these is false, since the under­ standing thereby contradicts its general rules of thinking and thus conn In the second edition, Dialexis; in the first, Dialele, i.e. reasoning in a circle.
 
 Object b 197 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
