Pan I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> ter, and it can only produce an intuition of itself in such a way, whose form, however, which antecedently grounds it in the mind, determines the way in which the manifold is together in the mind in the represenB69 tation of time; there it then intuits itself not as it would immediately self-actively represent itself, but in accordance with the way in which it is affected from within, consequently as it appears to itself, not as it is.
 
 III. In say: in space and time intuition represents both outer objectsa as well as the self-intuition of the mind as each affects our senses, i.e., as it appears, that is not to say that these objects would be a mere illu­ sion.b,37 For in the appearance the objects/ indeed even propertiesd that we attribute to them, are always regarded as something really given, only insofar as this property depends only on the kind of intuition of the subject in the relation e of the given object to it then this object as ap­ pearance is to be distinguished from itself as object! in itself. Thus I do not say that bodies merely seemg to exist outside me or that my soul only seemsh to be given ifI assert that the quality of space and time -in accordance with which, as condition of their existence, I posit both of these -lies in my kind of intuition and not in these objectsi in them­ selves. It would be my own fault if I made that which I should count as B 70 appearance into mere illusion. * But this does not happen according to B 69 *The predicates of appearance can be attributed to the object} in itself, in rela­ B 70 tion to our sense, e.g., the red color or fragrance to the rose; but the illusion can never be attributed to the object as predicate, precisely because that would be to attribute to the objectk for itself what pertains to it only in relation to the senses or in general to the subject, e.g., the two handles that were origi­ nally attributed to Saturn. VVhat is not to be encountered in the object' in it­ self at all, but is always to be encountered in its relation the subject and is to inseparable from the representation of the object, is appearance, and thus the predicates of space and of time are rightly attributed to the objects of the senses as such, and there is no illusion in this. On the contrary, if I attribute the redness to the rose in itself, the handles to Saturn or extension to all outer objects in themselves, without looking to a determinate relation of these ob­ jects to the subject and limiting my judgment to this, then illusion first arises.
 
 a Objate b Schein , Objecte Beschaffenheitm, here and in the remainder of this paragraph.
 
 d Relation , f Object scheinen g scheint h Objecten i Objecte J Object k Objecte I 190 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
