Ch. 1. Sec. II must also be just as damaging to his own speculative structure, should he think of erecting anything of the sort: about that he is entirely un­ concerned, because he does not need to dwell in that, but rather still has before him a prospect in the practical field, where with good ground he can hope for a firmer terrain on which to erect his rational and salutary system.
 
 There is accordingly no real polemic in the field of pure reason. Both parties fence in the air and wrestle with their shadows, for they go be­ yond nature, where there is nothing that their dogmatic grasp can seize and hold. Fight as they may, the shadows that they cleave apart grow back together in an instant, like the heroes of Valhalla, to amuse them­ selves anew in bloodless battles.
 
 However, there is also no permissible skeptical use of pure reason, which one could call the principle of its neutrality in all controversies.
 
 To incite reason against itself, to hand it weapons on both sides, and then to watch its heated struggle quietly and scornfully is not seemly from a dogmatic point of view, but rather has the look of a spiteful and malicious cast of mind. If, however, one takes regard of the inexorable deception and bragging of the sophists, who will not be moderated by A 757/ B 785 any critique, then there is really no other course but to set the boasting of one side against another, which stands on the same rights, in order at least to shock reason, by means of the resistance of an enemy, into rais­ ing some doubts about its pretensions and giving a hearing to the cri­ tique. But for reason to leave just these doubts standing, and to set out to recommend the conviction and confession of its ignorance, not merely as a cure for dogmatic self-conceit but also as the way in which to end the conflict of reason with itself, is an entirely vain attempt, by no means suitable for arranging a peaceful retirement for reason; rather it is at best only a means for awaking it from its sweet dogmatic dreams in order to undertake a more careful examination of its condition.
 
 Since, however, this skeptical manner of withdrawing from a tedious quarrel of reason seems to be the shortcut, as it were, for arriving at en­ during philosophical tranquility, or at least the high road that is happily recommended by those who would give a philosophical appearance to a scornful contempt for all investigations of this kind, I find it necessary to exhibit this manner of thought in its true light.
 
 On the impossibility of a skeptical satisfaction of pure reason that is divided against itself. IS The consciousness of my ignorance (if this is not at the same. time known to be necessary) should not end my inquiries, but is rather the 652 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use proper cause to arouse them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
