If changes are real, then time is real, whatever it may be. If time is unreal, then no change can be real. I think, though, that even an idealist must grant at least that changes really exist and occur in his representations, for example, their beginning and ending.
 
 Thus time cannot be regarded as something unreal. 104 Sulzer's briefer letter also raises a problem about time, asserting the po­ sition that duration must have "a true reality" even if the formal concept of time is some sort of abstraction from our experience of real dura­ tion; IOS and Mendelssohn too objects that For several reasons I cannot convince myself that time is something merely sub­ jective. Succession is after all at least a necessary condition of the representa­ tions that finite minds have . . . . Since we have to grant the reality of succession in a representing creature and in its alternations, why not also in the sensible objects, which are the models and prototypes of representations in the world?I06 Kant made no immediate reply to this objection, as we know from his letter to Herz of 7 June 177I .I 07 He merely asked Herz to apologize to his correspondents by saying that their letters had set him off on a long series of investigations, and then told Herz that he was now occupied with a work that "under the title The Bounds of Sensibility and Reason would work out in some detail the relationship of the concepts and laws determined for the sensible world together with the outline of what the nature of the theory of taste, metaphysics, and morality should con­ tain."I08 In his next pledge, Kant said that he expected to complete the plan of the work shortly.
 
 Kant does not appear to have written to Herz again until 21 February 1772, when he wrote what has become his most famous letter. Here Kant reviewed his plan for the work mentioned the previous June, stat­ ing that it was to consist of "two parts, a theoretical and a practical," the first of which in turn would consist of "(I) a general phenomenology and (2) metaphysics, but this only with regard to its nature and method," while the second part was to deal with "(I) the universal principles of feeling, taste, and sensuous desire and (2) the basic principles of moral­ ity."I09 However, Kant says, as he thought about the theoretical part -where the "phenomenology" was to have dealt with the limits of sensitive cognition before the purely intellectual foundations of meta­ physics were expounded -"I noticed that I still lacked something essen­ tial, something that in my long metaphysical studies I, as well as others, had failed to pay attention to and that, in fact, constitutes the key to the whole secret of hitherto still obscure metaphysics." But the fundamen­ tal problem that Kant now announced had nothing to with the objec47 Introduction tion to his idealism regarding time that the Berlin savants had raised; in­ deed, although Kant would eventually acknowledge that objection, IIO he would in no way rethink his position about the ideality of time.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
