Even though rejecting this idea comes from his "Principle of Succession," Kant didn’t realize this at first. He kept some parts of Leibniz’s metaphysics in his first big essay, even though that essay rejected big parts of Leibniz’s ideas about space and time and introduced Kant’s own mature views. It wasn’t until his book, Critique of Pure Reason, that Kant understood how important the interaction between physical things is for our experience of space and time. He also realized that the unity of the physical world depends on the unity of our experience. This was a big achievement leading up to the Critique.

Around the time of the Nova dilw:idatio, Kant wrote two other science books that helped build the base for his later philosophy. These were Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heavens (1755) and Metaphysicae cum geometria junctae usus in philosophia naturalis (1756), which included a part called Physical Monadology. But his next big period for philosophy was from 1762 to 1764, when he published four important works that were steps toward the Critique of Pure Reason.

Three of these works were probably finished in the fall of 1762, maybe in this order: False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures (1762); The Only Possible Basis for a Demonstration of the Existence of God (1763); and Inquiry concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality (which won second prize in a Berlin Academy competition, with Moses Mendelssohn’s essay winning first). The last one, Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy, was done and published by summer 1763.

The essay on False Subtlety mainly tries to simplify the many types of syllogisms in Aristotle’s logic, and it seems to help the least with the Critique of Pure Reason. But in its "Concluding Reflection," Kant talks about one important idea that plays a big part in almost all problems in the Critique. This is the idea that the most basic thing in logic and in how humans think is the idea of judgment.
