Section III. On the proofs of the existence of highest being a equal it, since every other concept is defective and in need of comple- AS86/B6I4 tion, not showing in itself any such mark of its independence of all further conditions. It is true that from this it still cannot be concluded with certainty that what does not contain within itself the highest and in every respect complete condition must therefore be conditioned in its existence; but then it does not have in itself that single earmark of unconditioned existence which gives reason the power to cognize any being as unconditioned through a concept priori.
 
 a Thus among all the concepts of possible things the concept of a being having the highest reality would be best suited to the concept of an un­ conditionally necessary being, and even if it does not fully satisfy this concept, we still have no other choice, but see ourselves compelled to hold to it, because we must not just throw the existence of a necessary being to the winds; yet if we concede this existence, then in the entire field of possibility we cannot find anything that could make a more well-grounded claim to such a privilege in existence.96 This, therefore, is how the natural course of human reason is consti­ tuted. First it convinces itself of the existence of some necessary being.
 
 In this it recognizes an unconditioned existence. Now it seeks for the concept of something independent of all conditions, and finds it in that which is the sufficient condition for everything else, i.e., in that which A 587 / B 61 5 contains all reality. The All without limits, however, is absolute unity, and carries with it the concept of one single being, namely the highest being; and thus reason infers that the highest being, as the original ground of all things, exists in an absolutely necessary way.
 
 It cannot be disputed that this concept has a certain cogency a if it is a matter of making decisions, that is, if the existence of some necessary being is already conceded, and one agrees that one must take sides on where one is to place it; for then one can make no more suitable choice than -or rather, one has no other choice, but is compelled -to vote for the absolute unity of complete reality as the original source of possibil­ ity. But if nothing impels us to come to a decision, and we would rather let this entire matter be tabled until we are compelled to give our ap­ proval by the full weight of grounds of proof, i.e., if it is merely a mat­ ter of estimating how much we know about this problem and what we merely flatter ourselves that we know -then the above inference does not appear to be in anything like the same advantageous shape and needs some special favor to make up for the defects in its rightful claims.
 
 For if we let everything stand just as it is here, namely: first, that from any given existence (in any case merely my own) there is a valid infer- AS88/B6I6 ence to the existence of an unconditionally necessary being; second, a Grini dlichkeit 561 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
