On Time <A> these predicates inhere, has objective reality, which is here entirely ab­ sent except insofar as it is merely empirical, i.e., the object itself is re­ garded merely as appearance: concerning which the above remark in the previous section is to be consulted.a,b Elucidation.
 
 Against this theory, which concedes empirical reality to time but disputes its absolute and transcendental reality, insightful men have so unanimously proposed one objection that I conclude that it must naturally occur to every reader who is not accustomed to these considera­ tions.20 It goes thus: Alterations are real (this is proved by the change of A 3 7 our own representations, even if one would deny all outer appearances together with their alterations). Now alterations are possible only in time, therefore time is something real. There is no difficulty in answering. I admit the entire argument. Time is certainly something real/ namely the real form of inner intuition. It therefore has subjective reality in regard to inner experience, i.e., I really have the representation of time and of my determinations in it. It is therefore to be regarded re- B 54 ally not as object! but as the way of representing myself as object! But if I or another being could intuit myself without this condition of sen­ sibility, then these very determinations, which we now represent to ourselves as alterations, would yield us a cognition in which the representation of time and thus also of alteration would not occur at all. Its empirical reality therefore remains as a condition of all our experiences.
 
 Only absolute reality cannot be granted to it according to what has been adduced above. It is nothing except the form of our inner intuition. * If * I can, to be sure, say: my representations succeed one another; but that only means that we are conscious of them as in a temporal sequence, i.e., accord­ ing to the form of inner sense. Time is not on that account something in it­ self, nor any determination objectively adhering to things.
 
 a This refers to A28-30/B44-5 in § 3.
 
 b Inserted in Kant's copy, before the next section: "Space and time are not merely logical forms of our sensibility, i.e., they do not consist in the fact that we represent actual re­ lations to ourselves confusedly; for then how could we derive from them priori syn­ a thetic and true propositions? We do not intuit space, but in a confused manner; rather it is the form of our intuition. Sensibility is not confusion of representations, but the subjective condition of consciousness." (E XXVIII, p. 20; 23:23) C Kant's copy adds: "So is space. This proves that here a reality (consequently also indi­ vidual intuition) is given, which yet always grounds the reality as a thing. Space and time do not belong to the reality of things, but only to our representations." (E XXIX, p. 20; 23:24) Object d , Objects 165 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
