On the empirical use of the regulative principle gard to the very same effect that is determined by nature, freedom might not also take place, or is this entirely excluded through that invi­ olable rule? And here the common but deceptive presupposition of the absolute reality of appearance immediately shows its disadvantageous influence for confusing reason. For if appearances are things in them­ selves, then freedom cannot be saved. Then nature is the completely determining cause, sufficient in itself, of every occurrence, and the con­ dition for an occurrence is always contained only in the series of ap­ pearances that, along with their effect, are necessary under the law of nature. If, on the other hand, appearances do not count for any more AS37 / BS6S than they are in fact, namely, not for things in themselves but only for mere representations connected in accordance with empirical laws, then they themselves must have grounds that are not appearances. Such an intelligible cause, however, will not be determined in its causality by appearances, even though its effects appear and so can be determined through other appearances. Thus the intelligible cause, with its causality, is outside the series; its effects, on the contrary, are encountered in the series of empirical conditions. The effect can therefore be regarded as free in regard to its intelligible cause, and yet simultaneously, in regard to appearances, as their result according to the necessity of nature; this is a distinction which, if it is presented in general and entirely abstractly, must appear extremely subtle and obscure, but in its application it will be enlightening. Here I have only wanted to note that since the thoroughgoing connection of all appearances in one context of nature is an inexorable law, it necessarily would have to bring down all freedom if one were stubbornly to insist on the reality of appearances. Hence even those who follow the common opinion about this matter have never succeeded in uniting nature and freedom with one another.
 
 The possibility of causality through freedom unified with A 538/ B S66 the universal law of natural necessity. 80 I call intelligible that in an object of sense which is not itself appearance.
 
 Accordingly, if that which must be regarded as appearance in the world of sense has in itself a faculty which is not an object of intuition through which it can be the cause of appearances, then one can consider the causality of this being in two aspects, as intelligible in its action as a thing in itself, and as sensible in the effects of that action as an appear­ ance in the world of sense. Of the faculty of such a subject we would ac­ cordingly form an empirical and at the same time an intellectual concept of its causality, both of which apply to one and the same effect. a Thinka Kant adds in his copy of the first edition: "Transcendental definitions: The causality of representations of a being in respect of the objects of them is life. The determinability of the power of representation to this causality is the faculty of desire. This power of 535 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
