Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <kin the relation of perception to its cause, it always remains doubtful whether this cause is internal or external, thus whether all so-called outer perceptions are not a mere play of our inner sense, or whether they are related to actual external objects as their cause. At least the ex­ istence of the latter is only inferred, and runs the risk of all inferences; by contrast, the object of inner sense (I myself with all my representa­ tions) is immediately perceived, and its existence suffers no doubt at all.
 
 Ey an idealist, therefore, one must understand not someone who de­ nies the existence of external objects of sense, but rather someone who only does not admit that it is cognized through immediate perception A 369 and infers from this that we can never be fully certain of their reality from any possible experience.
 
 Now before I display our paralogism in its deceptive illusion, I must first remark that one would necessarily have to distinguish a twofold idealism. I understand by the transcendental idealism of all appear­ ances the doctrine a that they are all together to be regarded as mere representations and not as things in themselves, and accordingly that space and time are only sensible forms of our intuition, but not deter­ minations given for themselves or conditions of objectsb as things in themselves. To this idealism is opposed transcendental realism, which regards space and time as something given in themselves (independent of our sensibility). The transcendental realist therefore represents outer appearances (if their reality is conceded) as things in themselves, which would exist independently of us and our sensibility and thus would also be outside us according to pure concepts of the understanding. It is re­ ally this transcendental realist who afterwards plays the empirical ideal­ ist; and after he has falsely presupposed about objects of the senses that if they are to exist they must have their existence in themselves even apart from sense, he finds that from this point of view all our represen­ tations of sense are insufficient to make their reality certain.
 
 A370 The transcendental idealist, on the contrary, can be an empirical realist, hence, as he is called, a dualist, i.e., he can concede the existence of matter without going beyond mere self-consciousness and assuming something more than the certainty of representations in me, hence the cogito, ergo sum.C For because he allows this matter and even its inner pos­ sibility to be valid only for appearance -which, separated from our sen­ sibility, is nothing -matter for him is only a species of representations (intuition), which are called external, not as if they related to objects that are external in themselves but because they relate perceptions to space, where all things are external to one another, but that space itself is in us.
 
 Lehrbegriff a Objecte b , I think, therefore I am.
 
 426 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
