This improvement comes with a small downside for the reader, which I couldn’t avoid without making the book way too long. Some things that aren’t absolutely necessary for understanding the whole had to be left out or shortened. Some readers might not like missing these parts because they can still be useful in other ways. But only by doing this could I make room for a clearer explanation. This new way of presenting things doesn’t change any of the ideas or proofs but is very different from the previous edition, so it couldn’t just be added in without rewriting a lot.

This small loss can be made up for if someone wants by comparing the first and second editions, which I think is fair. My existence can be known through time, but this knowledge and our inner experience depend on something permanent that is not inside me, so it must be outside me. Because of this, I have to think about myself in relation to that outside thing. For any experience to happen, the reality of outer sense (things outside me) has to be connected with inner sense (myself). I am just as sure that there are things outside me as I am sure that I exist in time.

Now, deciding which things we actually sense outside us, and which are just imagination, has to be done case by case. We use certain rules based on the idea that outer experience really exists. One more thing: imagining something lasting isn’t the same as the idea itself lasting. Our ideas can change all the time, even ideas about physical things, but they still connect to something permanent that is different from all our ideas and outside of us. This permanent thing is part of what makes me know I exist, and together they form one experience. This experience couldn’t happen even inside myself if it didn’t also partly involve the outside world.

We can’t explain exactly how this works any more than we can explain how we can think about things that last in time, or how changes happen when things stay the same at the same time.

I hope the second edition makes up for any loss by being easier to understand.
