Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <B> perception, the simple I, in the representation to which every combina­ tion or separation constituting thought is related, also becomes impor­ tant for its own sake,a even if I have not settled anything about the subject's constitution or subsistence. Apperception is something real, and its simplicity lies already in its possibility. Now there is nothing real in space that is simple; for points (which constitute the only simple en­ tities in space) are mere bounds, and not themselves something that B420 serves to constitute space as parts. Thus from this follows the impos­ sibility of explaining how I am constituted as a merely thinking sub­ ject on the basis of materialism. But because my existence in the first proposition is considered as given, since it does not say that every think­ ing being exists (which would at the same time predicate absolute ne­ cessity of them, and hence say too much), but only "I exist thinking," that proposition is empirical, and contains the determinability of my ex­ istence merely in regard to my representations in time. But since for this once again I first need something persisting, and, just insofar as I think myself, nothing of the sort is given to me in inner intuition, it is not possible at all through this simple self-consciousness to determine the way I exist, whether as substance or as accident. Thus if material­ ism will not work as a way of explaining my existence, then spiritual­ ism is just as unsatisfactory for it, and the conclusion is that in no way whatsoever can we cognize anything about the constitution of our soul that in any way at all concerns the possibility of its separate existence.
 
 And how should it be possible to go beyond experience (of our exis­ tence in life) through the unity of consciousness with which we are ac­ quainted only because we have an indispensable need of it for the possibility of experience, and even to extend our cognition to the nature B 42 I of all thinking beings in general, through the empirical but in regard to all kinds of intuition indeterminate proposition "I think"?
 
 Thus there is no rational psychology as doctrine that might provide us with an addition to our self-consciousness, but only as discipline, setting impassable boundaries for speculative reason in this field, in order, on the one side, not to be thrown into the lap of a soulless mate­ rialism, or on the other side not to get lost wandering about in a spiri­ tualism that must be groundless for us in life; on the contrary, it rather reminds us to regard this refusal of our reason to give an answer to those curious questions, which reach beyond this life, as reason's hint that we should turn our self-knowledgeb away from fruitless and extrav­ agant speculation toward fruitful practical uses, which, even if it is al­ ways directed only to objects of experience, takes its principlesc from for sich a b Selbsterkenntnis , Principien 452 On the paralogisms of pure reason <B> somewhere higher, and so determines our behavior, as if our vocationa extended infinitely far above experience, and hence above this life.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
