I will content myself with cast­ ing a cursory glance from a merely transcendental point of view, namely that of the nature of pure reason, on the whole of its labors hitherto, which presents to my view edifices, to be sure, but only in ruins.
 
 It is remarkable enough, although it could not naturally have been otherwise, that in the infancy of philosophy human beings began where we should now rather end, namely, by studying first the cognition of God and the hope or indeed even the constitution of another world.
 
 Whatever crude concepts of religion the old customs, which were left over from the rude state of the nations, may have introduced, these still did not prevent their more enlightened part from dedicating themselves to free investigations of this object, and it was readily understood that there could be no more fundamental and reliable way of pleasing the in­ visible power who rules the world, in order to be happy at least in anA8S3/B881 other world, than the good conduct of life. Hence theology and morality were the two incentives, or better, the points of reference for all the abstract inquiries of reason to which we have always been de­ voted. The first, however, was really that which gradually drew purely speculative reason in its train, which subsequently became so famous under the name of metaphysics.
 
 I will not now distinguish the times in which this or that alteration of metaphysics occurred, but will present in a cursory outline only the dif­ ference of the ideas which occasioned the chief revolutions. And here I find three points of view on which the most notable changes on this stage of conflict have been founded.
 
 I. With regard to the object of all of our rational cognitions, some were merely sensual philosophers, others merely intellectual phi­ losophers. Epicurus can be called the foremost philosopher of sensi­ bility, and Plato that of the intellectual. This difference of schools, a Beziehullgspullkte 702 The history of pure reason however, as subtle as it is, had already begun in the earliest times, and has long preserved itself without interruption.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
