Ch. 1. Sec. I finally whether with regard to its existence it is isolated or in reciprocal dependence with others; to decide about the possibility, actuality, and necessity of its existence or the opposites thereof: all of this belongs to rational cognition from concepts, which is called philosophical. But to determine an intuition a priori in space (shape), to divide time (dura­ tion), or merely to cognize the universal in the synthesis of one and the same thing in time and space and the magnitude of an intuition in gen­ eral (number) which arises from that: that is a concern of reason through construction of the concepts, and is called mathematical.
 
 The great good fortune that reason enjoys by means of mathematics leads entirely naturally to the expectation that, if not mathematics itself, then at least its method will also succeed outside of the field of magniA725/B753 tudes, since it brings all of its concepts to intuitions that it can give a priori and by means of which, so to speak, it becomes master over na­ ture; while pure philosophy, on the contrary, fumbles around in nature with discursive a priori concepts without being able to make their real­ ity intuitive a priori and by that means confirm it. Further, the masters of this art do not seem to lack any confidence in themselves, nor does the public seem to lack any great expectations of their talents, should they ever concern themselves about this at all. For since they have hardly ever philosophized about mathematics (a difficult business!), they have never given a thought to the specific difference between the two uses of reason. Rules used customarily and empirically, which they have borrowed from common reason, count as axioms with them. From whence the concepts of space and time with which they busy themselves (as the only original quanta) might be derived, they have never con­ cerned themselves, and likewise it seems to them to be useless to inves­ tigate the origin of pure concepts of the understanding and the scope of their validity; rather, they merely use them. In all of this they proceed quite correctly, as long as they do not overstep their appointed bound­ aries, namely those of nature. But they slip unnoticed from the field of sensibility to the insecure territory of pure and even transcendental concepts, where they are allowed the ground neither to stand nor swim A 726/B 754 (instabilis tellus, innabilis unda), a and can make only perfunctory steps of which time does not preserve the least trace, while on the contrary their progress in mathematics is a high road on which even their most remote descendants can still stride with confidence.
 
 a "Earth that cannot be stood upon, water that cannot be swum in" (Ovid, Metamorphoses, 1.r6). The line comes from Ovid's opening image of chaos, in which there are no fixed boundaries: "If there was land and sea, there was no discernible shoreline, no way to walk on the one, or swim or sail in the other. In the gloom and murk, vague shapes ap­ peared for a moment, loomed, and then gave way, unsaying themselves and the world as weI!." (The Metamorphoses of Ovid, tr. David R. Slavitt [Baltimore: Johns Hopkins, 1994], p. r) 636 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use Since we have made it our duty to determine the bounds of pure rea­ son in transcendental use exactly and with certainty, but this sort of en­ deavor has the peculiarity that, in spite of the most pressing and clearest warnings, it still always lets itself hope that it can stave off having to give up entirely the effort to get beyond the bounds of experience into the charming regions of the intellectual, it is therefore necessary to cut away, as it were, the last anchor of a fantastical hope, and to show that the pursuit of the mathematical method in this sort of cognition cannot offer the least advantage, unless it is that of revealing its own nakedness all the more distinctly, and revealing that mathematicsO and philosophy are two entirely different things, although they offer each other their hand in natural science, thus that the procedure of the one can never be imitated by that of the other.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
