Ch. III A84I / B 869 Now the philosophy of pure reason is either propaedeutic (preparation), which investigates the faculty of reason in regard to all pure a pri­ ori cognition, and is called critique, or, second, the system of pure reason (science), the whole (true as well as apparent) philosophical cog­ nition from pure reason in systematic interconnection, and is called metaphysics; this name can also be given to all of pure philosophy in­ cluding the critique, in order to comprehend the investigation of every­ thing that can ever be cognized a priori as well as the presentation of that which constitutes a system of pure philosophical cognitions of this kind, but in distinction from all empirical as well as mathematical use of reason.
 
 Metaphysics is divided into the metaphysics of the speculative and the practical use of pure reason, and is therefore either metaphysics of nature or metaphysics of morals. The former contains all rational principleso from mere concepts (hence with the exclusion of mathe­ matics) for the theoretical cognition of all things; the latter, the prin­ ciplesb which determine action and omission a priori and make them necessary. Now morality is the only lawfulness of actions which can be derived entirely a priori from principles. C Hence the metaphysics of morals is really the pure morality, which is not grounded on any anA84z1B870 thropology (no empirical condition). The metaphysics of speculative reason is that which has customarily been called metaphysics in the narrower sense;d but insofar as the pure doctrine of morals neverthe­ less belongs to the special stem of human and indeed philosophical cog­ nition from pure reason, we will retain this term for it, although we set it aside here as not now pertaining to our end.
 
 It is of the utmost importance to isolate cognitions that differ from one another in their species and origin, and carefully to avoid mixing them together with others with which they are usually connected in their use. What chemists do in analyzing materials, what mathemati­ cians do in their pure theory of magnitude, the philosopher is even more obliged to do, so that he can securely determine the proper value and influence of the advantage that a special kind of cognition has over the aimless use of the understanding. Hence human reason has never been able to dispense with a metaphysics as long as it has thought, or rather reflected,e though it has never been able to present it in a man­ ner sufficiently purified of everything foreign to it. The idea of such a science is just as old as speculative human reason; and what reason does d Principien b Principien , Principien d Verstande , nachgedacht 696 The architectonic of pure reason not speculate, whether in a scholastic or a popular manner?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
