Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Appendix abstract from the latter, then the former have no relation a at all to any sort of object.b Indeed, even if one would assume another sort of intu­ ition than this our sensible one, our functions for thinking would still be without any significance in regard to it. If we understand thereby only objects of a non-sensible intuition, of which our categories are cer­ tainly not valid, and of which we can therefore never have any cogni­ tion at all (neither intuition nor concept), then noumena in this merely negative sense must of course be allowed: for they would then not say anything but that our manner of intuition does not pertain to all things, B 34 3 but only to objects of our senses, consequently that their objective va­ lidity is bounded, and room thus remains for some other sort of intu­ ition and therefore also for things as its objects.c But in that case the concept of a noumenon is problematic, i.e., the representation of a thing Az87 of which we can say neither that it is possible nor that it is impossible, since we are acquainted with no sort of intuition other than our own sensible one and no other sort of concepts than the categories, neither of which, however, is suited to an extrasensible object. Hence we can­ not thereby positively expand the field of the objects of our thinking be­ yond the conditions of our sensibility, and assume beyond appearances objects of pure thinking, i.e., noumena, since those do not have any positive significance that can be given. For one must concede that the categories alone are not sufficient for the cognition of things in them­ selves, and without the data of sensibility they would be merely subjec­ tive forms of the unity of the understanding, but without any object.
 
 Thinking in itself, to be sure, is not a product of the senses, and to this extent is also not limited by them, but it is not on that account imme­ diately of any independent and pure use, without assistance from sensi­ bility, for it is in that case without an object.d And one cannot call the noumenon e such an object! for this signifies precisely the problematic B 344 concept of an object for an entirely different intuition and an entirely different understanding than our own, which is thus a problem itself.
 
 The concept of the noumenong is therefore not the concept of an ob­ ject,h but rather the problem, unavoidably connected with the limitation of our sensibility, of whether there may not be objects entirely exempt Az88 from the intuition of our sensibility, a question that can only be given a Beziehung Object b , Objecte Object d , Not in roman type.
 
 f Object Not in roman type.
 
 g Object h 380 On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection the indeterminate answer that since sensible intuition does not pertain to all things without distinction room remains for more and other ob­ jects; they cannot therefore be absolutely denied, but in the absence of a determinate concept (for which no category is serviceable) they also cannot be asserted as objects for our understanding.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
