The Transcendental Doctrine of Elements First Part The Transcendental Aesthetica,I In whatever way and through whatever means a cognition may relate to objects, that through which it relates immediately to them, and at which all thought as a means is directed as an end, is intuition.h,2 This, however, takes place only insofar as the object is given to us; but this in turn, is possible only if it affectsC the mind in a certain way. The capac­ ity (receptivity) to acquire representations through the way in which we are affected by objects is called sensibility. Objects are therefore given to us by means of sensibility, and it alone affords us intuitions; but they are thought through the understanding, and from it arise concepts. But all thought, whether straightaway (directe) or through a detour (indirecte), must ultimately be related to intuitions, thus, in our case, to sensibility, since there is no other way in which objects can be given to us.
 
 The effect of an object on the capacity for representation, insofar as B 34 " we are affected by it, is sensation. That intuition which is related to the A 20 object through sensation is called empirical. The undetermined object of an empirical intuition is called appearance.3 I call that in the appearance which corresponds to sensation its matter, but that which allows the manifold of appearance to be intuited as ora The "Transcendental Aesthetic" underwent major changes between the two editions of the Critique, including but not limited to the separation of the "Metaphysical" and "Transcendental" expositions of space and time and the addition of three sections to the concluding "General Remarks." We therefore present both versions in their entirety, using the marginal pagination and notes to show where specific changes were made.
 
 The following version from the first edition also includes the notes Kant made in his own copy of that edition.
 
 b The following note is inserted in Kant's copy: "[intuition] is opposed to the concept, which is merely the mark of intuition.
 
 "The universal must be given in the particular. Through that it has significance." (E X, p. IS; 23=21) , Added in Kant's copy: "If the representation is not in itself the cause of the object [Objects]." (EX!, p. 1ft 2 J:2 I) Added in Kant's copy. 'Intuition is related to the object [Object], sensation merely to the d subject." (E XII, p. IS; 73:21) 155 Doctrine of Elements Part I <.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
