Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II The following section will place these remarks in a suitable light by giving them an application.
 
 The Antinomy of Pure Reason Section Nine On the empirical use of the regulative principle of reason, a in regard to all cosmological ideas.
 
 Since, as we have repeatedly shown, there is just as little transcendental use of pure concepts of understanding as there is of concepts of reason, because the absolute totality of series of conditions in the world of sense is based solely on a transcendental use of reason that demands this un­ conditioned completeness from what it presupposes is a thing in itself; and since the world of sense, however, contains nothing like that com­ pleteness, there can never again be an issue about the absolute magni­ tude of the series in this world, whether it might be bounded or in itself unbounded, but only about how far we should go back in the empirical regress when we trace experience back to its conditions, so that, fol­ lowing the rule of reason, we do not stop with any answer to its ques­ tions except that which is appropriate to the object.
 
 Thus the only thing left to us is the validity of the principleh of rea­ son as a rule for the continuation and magnitude of a possible experi­ ence, once its invalidity as a constitutive principle of appearances in themselves has been adequately demonstrated. If we can keep the for­ mer in view and beyond doubt, then the conflict of reason with itself will also be entirely at an end, since not only will the illusion that put reason at odds with itself have been done away with through its critical dissolution, but in place of it, that sense will have been uncovered in which reason agrees with itself, and whose misinterpretation was the sole cause of the conflict; and a principle that would otherwise be di­ alectical will be transformed into a doctrinal principle. In fact, if this principle can be preserved in its subjective signification for suitably de­ termining the greatest possible use of the understanding in experience in regard to its objects, then that would be just as if the principle were (what it is impossible to get from pure reason) an axiom determining objects in themselves priori; for even this could have no greater influ­ a ence on the extension and correction of our cognition in regard to ob­ jectsC of experience than by actively proving itself in the most extensive use of our understanding in experience.
 
 a Princip Princip b Objecte , 524 Section IX.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
