Pt. II. Div. Bk. II A345/B403 From these elements, at least through composition, spring all the concepts of the pure doctrine of the soul, without any other principlea being cognized in the least. This substance, merely as an object of inner sense, gives us the concept of immateriality; as simple substance, it gives us that of incorruptibility; its identity, as an intellectual sub­ stance, gives us personality; all these points together give us spiritual­ ity; the relationb to objects in space gives us the interactionc with bodies; thus it represents the thinking substance as the principled of life in matter, i.e., as a soul (anima) and as the ground of animality, and this -limited by spirituality -is immortality.
 
 Now to these concepts four paralogisms of a transcendental doctrine of the soul are related, which are falsely held to be a science of pure rea­ B404 son about the nature of our thinking being. At the ground of this doc­ trine we can place nothing but the simple and in content for itself A 346 wholly empty representation I, of which one cannot even say that it is a concept, but a mere consciousness that accompanies every concept.
 
 Through this I, or He, or It (the thing), which thinks, nothing further is represented than a transcendental subject of thoughts which is = x, e recognized only through the thoughts that are its predicates, and about which, in abstraction, we can never have even the least concept; because of which we therefore turn in a constant circle, since we must always al­ ready avail ourselves of the representation of it at all times in order to judge anything about it; we cannot separate ourselves from this incon­ venience, because the consciousness in itself is not even a representa­ tion distinguishing a particular object! but rather a form of represen­ tation in general, insofar as it is to be called a cognition; for of itg alone can I say that through it I think anything.
 
 But right at the start it must seem strange that the condition under which I think in general, and which is therefore merely a propertyh of my subject, is at the same time to be valid for everything that thinks, and that on an empirical-seeming proposition we can presume to ground an apodictic and universal judgment, namely, that everything that thinks is constituted as the claim of self-consciousness asserts of me. But the cause B405 of this lies in the fact that we must necessarily ascribe to things a priori Principium a Verhiiltnis b , das Commercium Principium d , In the first and third editions, this letter is capitalized.
 
 f Object sie, which probably refers to "cognition," but would also agree grammatically with "rep­ g resentation." Beschaffenheit; elsewhere in the passage, "property" translates Eigenschaft.
 
 h 414 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
