Hence the latter are more of an emergency aid than a pro- A 790/ B 818 cedure which satisfies all the aims ofr eason. Yet they have an advantage in self-evidence over the direct proofs in this: that a contradiction always carries with it more clarity of representation than the best connection, and thereby more closely approaches the intuitiveness of a demonstration.
 
 The real cause for the use of apagogic proofs in various sciences is probably this. If the grounds from which a certain cognition should be derived are too manifold or lie too deeply hidden, then one tries whether they may not be reached through their consequences. Now modus ponens, inferring the truth of a cognition from the truth of its consequences, would be allowed only if all of the possible consequences are true; for in this case only a single ground of this is possible, which is therefore also the true one.24 But this procedure is unusable, because to have insight into all possible consequences of any proposition that is assumed exceeds our powers; yet one uses this kind of inference, though to be sure with a certain degree of care, if it is merely a matter of prov­ ing something as an hypothesis, since there an inference by analogy is allowed: that, namely, if as many consequences as one has tested agree with an assumed ground then all other possible ones will also agree with it. But for this reason an hypothesis can never be transformed into a A79I/B8I9 demonstrated truth by this path. The modus tollens of rational inferences,a which infers from the consequences to the grounds, proves not only entirely strictly but also in all cases easily. For if even only a single false consequence can be derived from a proposition, then this proposition is false.25 Now instead of having to run through the entire series of the grounds in an ostensive proof that can lead to the truth of a cognition, by means of complete insight into its possibility, one need only find a single false one among the consequences flowing from its contrary, and then the contrary is also false, thus the cognition that one had to prove is true.
 
 Apagogic proof, however, can be allowed only in those sciences where it is impossible to substitute that which is subjective in our rep­ resentations for that which is objective, namely the cognition of what is in the object. Where the latter is the dominant concern, however, then it must frequently transpire that the opposite of a certain proposition either simply contradicts the subjective conditions of thought but not the object, or else that both propositions contradict each other only under a subjective condition that is falsely held to be objective, and that since the condition is false, both of them can be false, without it being possible to infer the truth of one from the falsehood of the other.
 
 a Vernunftschlusse, which could also be translated "syllogisms." 669 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
