On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> study our soul following the guidelinea of experience, and to remain within the limit of those questions that do not go beyond that whose content can be provided by possible inner experience.
 
 But if it has no utility as an extension of our cognition, but so re­ garded is rather composed of mere paralogisms, it still cannot be denied an important negative utility even if it is to count for nothing more than a critical treatment of our dialectical inferences, those of common and natural reason.
 
 Why do we have need of a doctrine of the soul grounded merely on A 3 8 3 pure rational principles?b Without doubt chiefly with the intent of securing our thinking Self from the danger of materialism. But this is achieved by the rational concept of our thinking Self that we have given. For according to it, so little fear remains that if one took matter away then all thinking and even the existence of thinking beings would be abolished, that it rather shows clearly that if I were to take away the thinking subject, the whole corporeal world would have to disappear, as this is nothing but the appearance in the sensibility of our subject and one mode of its representations.
 
 Thereby of course I obviously cognize this thinking Self no better as to its properties, nor can I have any insight into its persistence, or even the independence of its existence from whatever transcendental sub­ stratum of outer appearances there may be, for this is just as unknown to me as the self is. But since it is likewise possible that I may find cause, drawn from somewhere else than mere speculative grounds, to hope for an existence of my thinking nature that is self-sufficient and persisting through all possible changes of my state, much is still won if, through the free confession of my ignorance, I can nevertheless repel the dogmatic attacks of a speculative opponent, and show him that he can never A 384 know more in which to deny my expectations about the nature of my subject than I can in order to hold to them.
 
 On this transcendental illusion of our psychological concepts, then, three dialectical questions are grounded, which constitute the proper goal of rational psychology, and cannot be decided otherwise than by the above investigations. These questions are, namely: ) about the pos­ J sibility of the community of the soul with an organic body, i.e., the an­ imality and the state of the soul in the life of the human being; 2) about the beginning of this community, i.e., of the soul in and before the birth of the human being; and 3) as to the end of this community, i.e., of the soul in and after the death of the human being (the question concern­ ing immortality).
 
 Leitfaden a b Principien 433 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
