Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III them before one's eyes in a scholastically correct way. Here is such a presentation.
 
 If the proposition is correct: "Every absolutely necessary being is at the same time the most real being" (which is the nervus probandill of the cosmological proof), then like any affirmative judgment, it must be convertible per accidens, thus: "Some most real beings are at the same time absolutely necessary beings." But now one ens realissimum does not differ the least bit from another, and thus what holds of some beings contained under this concept holds also of all. Hence I will also be able (in this case) to convert the propositionb absolutely, i.e., "Every most real being is a necessary being." Now because this proposition is deter­ mined merely from its concepts a priori, the mere concept of the most real being must also carry with it the absolute necessity of this being -which is just what the ontological proof asserts and the cosmo­ logical proof does not want to recognize, despite the fact that it underA609/B637 lies its inferences, though in a covert way.
 
 Thus the second way that speculative reason takes in order to prove the existence of the highest being is not only deceptive like the first, but it even has this further blamable feature in it, that it commits an igno­ ratio elenchi, promising to put us on a new footpath, but after a little di­ c gression bringing us once again back to the old one, which for its sake we had left behind.
 
 A short time agoI05 I said that in this cosmological argument an en­ tire nest of dialectical presumptions is hidden, which transcendental criticism can easily discover and destroy. I will now only cite them, leav­ ing it to the reader to investigate further their deceptive principles and remove them.
 
 There is, for example: I) The transcendental principle of inferring from the contingent to a cause, which has significance only in the world of sense, but which outside it does not even have a sense. For the merely intellectual concept of the contingent cannot produce any synthetic proposition, such as that of causality, and the principle of causality has no significance at all and no mark of its use except in the world of sense; here, however, it is supposed to serve precisely to get beyond the world A6IOiB638 of sense. 2) The inference from the impossibility ofa n infinite series of causes given one upon another to a first cause, which the principlesd of the use of reason itself cannot justify our inferring within experience, still less our extending this principle to somewhere beyond it (into which the causal chain cannot be extended at all). 3) The false selfa nerve of what is to be proved b ich's added in the second edition.
 
 , refutation by ignorance Principien d 572 Section V.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
