For the second edition, Kant made extensive additions and some deletions in the body of this chapter prior to the appendix on the "Amphiboly of the Concepts of Reflection." We will present each version of the chapter up to the appen足 dix in its entirety, repeating those passages that were not changed. The marginal pagi足 nation and notes will mark where the changes were made.
 
 The following notes appear at the start of this chapter in Kant's copy of the first edition: b "Here is the question: How far does the possibility of synthetic cognition a priori extend? If there is talk of a thing through categories that is determined merely through reason, hence also through categories, then such propositions are analytic, and yield no cognition." (E CN, p. 38; 23=34) "I. On appearance and illusion.
 
 "2. How can one say that bodies are appearances. They consist of pure relations [lauter Relationen]; soul consists of pure [lauter] synthesis and analysis of these repre足 sentations. The I is noumenon; I as intelligence." (E CV; p. 38; 23:34) "Being of sense -being of understanding; sensibilia -intelligibilia." (E CVI, p. 38; 23:34) "We can only think noumena, not cognize them." (E CVIl, p. 38; 23:34) "One must think things in themselves through the concept of a most-real being, since this excludes all experience." (E CVIII, p. 39; 23:34) "Mundus phaenomenon or a whole of substances in space may readily be thought, but not as noumenon, since they are isolated." (E CIX, p. 39; 23:35) "The same things as beings of sense or understanding. I myself am the only thing that does not intuit itself." (E CX, p. 39; 23:35) "Categories do not serve to cognize things for themselves, but only to order intu足 itions in space and time, i.e., appearances." (E CX!, p. 39; 23:35) "Until now one believed that through categories one actually already cognized something; now we see that they are only forms of thought for bringing the manifold of intuitions to synthetic unity of apperception." (E CXII, p. 39; 23:35) 338 Chapter III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
