Pt. II. Div. II. Transcendental Dialectic then the inference is called a "syllogism."a In the proposition All hu­ mans are mortal there lie already the propositions "Some humans are A304 mortal," "Someb mortal beings are human beings," "NothingC immor­ tal is a human being," and these propositions are thus immediate con­ clusions from the first one. On the other hand, the proposition "All scholars are mortal" does not lie in the underlying judgment (for the concept "scholar" does not occur in it at all), and can be concluded from it only by means of an intermediate judgment.
 
 In every syllogism I think first a rule (the major) through the under­ standing. Second, I subsume a cognition under the condition of the rule (the minor) by means of the power of judgment. Finally, I determine my B36r cognition through the predicate of the rule (the conclusio),d hence a priori through reason. Thus the relatione between a cognition and its condi­ tion, which the major premise represents as the rule, constitutes the dif­ ferent kinds of syllogisms. They are therefore threefold -just as are all judgments in general-insofar as they are distinguished by the way they express the relationf of cognition to the understanding: namely, cate­ gorical or hypothetical or disjunctive syllogisms.9 If, as happens for the most part, the conclusion is a judgment given as the problem,g in order to see whether it flows from already given judgments, through which, namely, a wholly different object is thought, then I seek whether the assertion of this conclusion is not to be found in the understanding under certain conditions according to a universal A305 rule. Now if! find such a condition and if the objecth of the conclusion can be subsumed under the given condition, then this conclusion is de­ rived from the rule that is also valid for other objects of cognition.
 
 From this we see that reason, in inferring, seeks to bring the greatest manifold of cognition of the understanding to the smallest number of principles (universal conditions), and thereby to effect the highest unity of that manifold.
 
 B362 C.
 
 On the pure use of reason.
 
 Can we isolate reason, and is it then a genuinei source of concepts and judgments that arise solely from it and thereby refer it to objects; or is a Vernunftscblufl (literally, an "inference of reason") b In the first edition: "or some." , In the first edition: "or nothing." d conclusion , Verbaltnis f Verbaltnis aufgegeben g Object h , eigener 390 Introduction reason only a merely subordinate a faculty that gives to given cognitions a certain form, called "logical" form, through which cognitions of the understanding are subordinated to one another, and lower rules are subordinated to higher ones (whose condition includes the condition of the lower rules in its sphere), as far as this can be effected through com­ paring them?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
