a The logical exposition of thinking in general is falsely held to be a metaphysical determination of the object.b It would be a great, or indeed the only stumbling block to our entire critique, if it were possible to prove a priori that all thinking beings are 'in themselves simple substances, thus (as a consequence of the same ground of proof) that personality is inseparable from them, and that they are conscious of their existence as detached from all matter. For in this way we would have taken a step beyond the sensible world, entering into the field of noumena,c and then no one could deny that we are B 41 0 entitled to extend ourselves farther into this field, settle in it, and, as far as each of us might be favored by an auspicious star, to take possession of it. For the proposition "Every thinking being as such is a simple substance" is a synthetic proposition priori, first because it goes beyond a the concept that grounds it by adding the way of existing to thinking in general and second because it adds to that concept a predicate (simplicity) that cannot be given in any experience whatever. Thus synthetic propositions a priori would not, as we have asserted, be feasible and ac­ cessible merely in relation to objects of possible experience, and in particular as principles d of the possibility of this experience itself, but rather they could reach as far as things in general and in themselves, which consequence would put an end to this whole critique and would bid us to leave things the same old way they were before. Yet that danger is not so great here if one approaches nearer to the matter.
 
 The procedure of rational psychology is governed by a paralogism, which is exhibited through the following syllogism: What cannot be thought otherwise than as subject does not exist otherwise than as subject, and is therefore substance.
 
 Now a thinking being, considered merely as such, cannot be B4II thought otherwise than as subject.
 
 Therefore it also exists only as such a thing, i.e., as substance.
 
 The major premise talks about a being that can be thought of in every respect, and consequently even as it might be given in intuition.
 
 But the minor premise talks about this being only insofar as it is con­ sidered as subject, relative only to thinking and the unity of con­ sciousness, but not at the same time in relation to the intuition through which it is given as an objecte for thinking. Thus the concluObject a b Object , Nat in roman type.
 
 Principien d , Object 447 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
