Systematic representation of all synthetic principles solved synthetically, though they also fall under the jurisdiction of rea­ son alone; for they mean, roughly, to ask whether all things, as appear­ ances, belong together in the sum total and the context of a single experience, of which each given perception is a part which therefore could not be combined with any other appearances, or whether my per- B 283 ceptions could belong to more than one possible experience (in their general connection).a The understanding gives priori to experience in a general only the rule, in accordance with the subjective and formal conditions of sensibility as well as of apperception, which alone make it possible. Even were they possible, we could still not conceive of and make comprehensible other forms of intuition (than space and time) or other forms of understanding (than the discursive form of thinking, or that of cognition through concepts); and even if we could, they would still not belong to experience, as the sole cognition in which objects are given to us. Whether other perceptions than those which in general be- A23 I long to our entire possible experience and therefore an entirely different field of matter can obtain cannot be decided by the understanding, which has to do only with the synthesis of that which is given.
 
 Otherwise the poverty of our usual inferences through which we bring forth a great realm of possibility, of which everything actual (every object of experience) is only a small part, is very obvious. "Everything actual is possible" -from this there follows naturally, in accordance with the logical rules of conversion, the merely particular proposition, "Something possible is actual," which then seems to mean as much as "Much is possible that is not actual." It certainly looks as if one could B 284 increase the number of that which is possible beyond that of the actual, since something must be added to the former to constitute the latter.
 
 But I do not acknowledge this addition to the possible. For that which would have to be added to the possible would be impossible. All that can be added to my understanding is something beyond agreement with the formal conditions of experience, namely connection with some perception or other; but whatever is connected with this in accordance with empirical laws is actual, even if it is not immediately perceived.
 
 However, that another series of appearances in thoroughgoing connection with that which is given to me in perception, thus more than a sin- A232 gle all-encompassing experience, is possible, cannot be inferred from that which is given, and even less without anything being given at all; for without matterb nothing at all can be thought. That which is possible only under conditions that are themselves merely possible is not possible in all respects. But this is the way the question is taken when Zusammenhange a b Stoff, i.e., matter as contrasted to form, rather than matter in a specifically physical sense.
 
 331 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
