lournena <B> pIes spun out from them, is also obvious from this: That we cannot even give a real definition of a single one of them, i.e., make intelligible the possibility of their object,a without immediately descending to condi­ tions of sensibility, thus to the form of the appearances, to which, as their sole objects, they must consequently be limited, since, if one re- A241 moves this condition, all significance, i.e., relation to the object,b disappears, and one cannot grasp through an example what sort of thing is really intended by concepts of that sort. C liNo one can define the concept of magnitude in general except by A242 something like this: That it is the determination of a thing through which it can be thought how many units are posited in it. Only this how-many-times is grounded on successive repetition, thus on time and the synthesis (of the homogeneous) in it. Reality, in contrast to negation, can only be defined if one thinks of a time (as the sum total of all being) that is either filled by it or empty. If I leave out persistence (which is existence at all times), then nothing is left in my concept of substance except the logical representation of the subject, which I try to realize by representing to myself something that can occur solely as subject (without being a predicate of anything). But then it is not only A 243 the case that I do not even know of any conditions under which this log- B 30r ical preeminence can be attributed to any sort of thing; it is also the case that absolutely nothing further is to be made of it, and not even the least consequence is to be drawn from it, because by its means no object e whatever of the use of this concept is determined, and one therefore does not even know whether the latter means anything at all. From the concept of a cause as a pure category (if I leave out the time in which something follows something else in accordance with a rule), I will not find out anything more than that it is something that allows an inference to the existence of something else; and in that case not only would there be nothing through which cause and effect could be distin­ guished, but further, since the possibility of drawing this inference also requires conditions about which I would know nothing, the concept would not even have any determination through which to apply to any object! The supposed principle "Everything contingent has a cause" steps forth rather gravely, as if it had its own dignity in itself. Yet if I ask what you mean by "contingent," and you answer, "that the not-being of which is possible," then I would gladly know by what means you intend to cognize the possibility of this not-being, if you do not represent a a Objects b Object , At this point material from the first edition is deleted; see 241-2.
 
 A d The text common to the two editions resumes here.
 
 , Object f Object 357 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
