His first argument is that different subjects might represent outer objects in different ways; but from this it does not follow that all those subjects represent objects other than they actually are -maybe there is one sort of subject who represents objects correctly while others do not, and maybe indeed that one sort of subject is us. His second argument is that the form of the representation of objects cannot represent the objects as they are in themselves because this form represents a "law inherent in the mind." But there are two issues here: first, there is an unstated and unargued assumption that a "law inherent in the mind" cannot also represent a form inherent in objects themselves; and second, since intellectual con­ cepts also are laws inherent in the mind used to give form to our repre­ sentations of things, it would seem to follow that they too give knowledge of objects only as they appear to us and not as they really are. We will see that Kant supplies further arguments for transcenden­ tal idealism both later in the dissertation and in the Critique; whether these arguments are independent of the initial assumptions that what­ ever is receptive and whatever is formal are inherently subjective rather than objectively valid will be an important question.
 
 Finally, there are major questions about Kant's characterization of the "intellect" here. As we saw, he supposes that we need only the "logical" use of the intellect to generate empirical concepts and experience out of mere appearance, and the "real" use of the intellect, in which it gener­ ates non-empirical concepts, is sufficient to furnish knowledge of non­ empirical objects. Both assumptions will be rejected after 1772. On the one hand, Kant will recognize that non-empirical concepts generated by the intellect -in fact, a list of non-empirical concepts including those mentioned here such as "possibility, existence, necessity, sub­ stance, cause, etc." -must be applied to the data given by sensibility in order to arrive at experience or empirical knowledge; mere abstraction and reflective comparison will not suffice for this purpose. On the other hand, Kant will also conclude that those concepts by themselves cannot be used to obtain theoretical knowledge about objects we do not sense, such as God, although they can ultimately be used to form coherent conceptions of such objects that can be validated on moral grounds.
 
 These profound revisions in Kant's thought will call for terminologi­ cal revisions as well. Here Kant speaks of a single faculty, "intelligence" or "intellect," which has both a real and a logical use. In the Critique, Kant will distinguish between understanding and reason as two parts or perhaps better aspects of the higher cognitive faculties of the mind.74 Understanding will be the source of non-empirical categories or "pure concepts of the understanding" that must be applied to data furnished by the senses to yield empirical knowledge, and thus have a real use but only for empirical objects; further, since Kant continues to believe that sensi40 Introduction bility furnishes mere appearance, the real use of the understanding will also be confined to appearance.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
