This idea is connected to the saying that God always does things in the best way, mixing lots of different things with perfect order. You can find this in some of Kant’s writings like the Discourse on Metaphysics and the Monadology.

Charles Bonnet (1726-1793) was a Swiss scientist who studied nature. The book mentioned is called Contemplation de la nature, published in 1764. Kant probably read it in German, called Betrachtungen über die Natur, from 1766.

In biology, "palingenesis" means how an animal changes from one stage to another during its life. Bonnet used it this way. But it also means "metempsychosis," which is the idea that a soul moves from one life to another. Kant seems to use this second meaning. Leibniz talked about how these two ideas are connected.

For more details on a certain phrase, see the reference A 510-12 / B 538-40.

Look at the "Antinomy of Pure Reason," section eight, for more explanation.

Leibniz criticized a belief called "quietism," which said people should just wait and do nothing because God will take care of everything. Quietism was popular in the 1600s and said human effort is useless. Some famous quietists were Miguel de Molinos, Jeanne Marie Guyon, and François de Salignac de la Mothe Fenelon.

Leibniz didn’t like quietism. He called this lazy kind of thinking "ignava ratio," which means lazy reason. This idea goes back to ancient thinkers.

Cicero, a Roman, also criticized a lazy way of thinking that stops all action in life. He was arguing against the Stoic idea of fate. Leibniz used this example too, and the phrase he used comes from Greek, although the main idea was about Stoicism.

The phrase "putting the cart before the horse" is about making mistakes by doing things in the wrong order. In logic, it means trying to prove something before you have all the facts.

See the "Antinomy of Pure Reason," section four, for more on this.

Kant also hints at the biblical story of Babel, where people couldn’t understand each other and got confused.

For more on the parts of Kant’s method, check the notes from pages 627-637 and others listed in his works from 1776-78.
