Above we have called dialectic in general a logic of illusion.b That does not mean that it is a doctrine of probability;c for that is truth, but cog­ nized through insufficient grounds, so that the cognition of it is defec­ tive, but not therefore deceptive, and so it need not be separated from the analytical part of logic. 2 Still less may we take appearanced and ilB 350 lusion for one and the same. For truth and illusion are not in the ob­ ject, insofar as it is intuited, but in the judgment about it insofar as it is thought. Thus it is correctly said that the senses do not err; yet not be­ cause they always judge correctly, but because they do not judge at all.
 
 Hence truth, as much as error, and thus also illusion as leading to the latter, are to be found only in judgments, i.e., only in the relatione of the object to our understanding. In a cognition that thoroughly agrees with A294 the laws of the understanding there is also no error. In a representation of sense (because it contains no judgment at all) there is no error. No force of nature can of itself depart from its own laws. Hence neither the understanding by itself (without the influence of another cause), nor the senses by themselves, can err; the first cannot, because while it acts merely according to its own laws, its effect (the judgment) must neces­ sarily agree with these laws.3 But the formal aspect of all truth consists in agreement with the laws of the understanding. In the senses there is no judgment at all, neither a true nor a false one. Now because we have a "We have previously proved that we can think only through categories and the concepts derived from them, but that our cognition (a p"iori) with them can reach no farther than to objects of possible experience. Now sciences come forward -psychology, cosmology, theology -that promise this." (E CLII, p. 46; 23:38) Schein b , TVahrscheinlichkeit Erscheinung d , Verhdltnis 384 Introduction no other sources of cognition besides these two, it follows that error is effected only through the unnoticed influence of sensibility on under­ standing, through which it happens that the subjective grounds a of the judgment join with the objective ones, and make the latter deviate from B 351 their destination*,b just as a moved body would ofi tself always stay in a straight line in the same direction, but starts off on a curved line if at the same time another force influences it in another direction.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
