Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III character of such a presupposition much too easily to allow itself to be A S84/ B 612 persuaded by this alone straightway to assume a mere creature ofi ts own thinking to be an actual being, were it not urged from another source to seek somewhere for a resting place in the regress from the conditioned, which is given, to the unconditioned, which in itself and as regards its mere concept is not indeed actually given, but which alone can complete series of conditions carried out to their grounds. Now this is the natural course taken by every human reason, even the most common, although not everyone perseveres in it. It a begins not with concepts, but with common experience, and thus grounds itself on something existing. But this footingh gives way unless it rests on the immovable rock of the ab­ solutely necessary. But this itself floats without a support if there is still only empty space outside it and under it, unless it itself fills everything, so that no room is left over for any further Why? i.e., unless it is infi­ nite in its reality.
 
 If something, no matter what, exists, then it must also be conceded that something exists necessarily. For the contingent exists only under the condition of something else as its cause, and from this the same in­ ference holds further all the way to a cause not existing contingently and therefore necessarily without condition. That is the argument on which reason grounds its progress to the original being.95 AS8S/B613 Now reason looks around for the concept of a being suited for such a privileged existence, as the absolute necessity, yet not in order to infer its existence a priori from its concept (for if it were confident of that, then it might inquire only among mere concepts, and would not find it necessary to take a given existence as its ground), but rather only in order to find among all the concepts of possible things that one that has nothing within itself conflicting with absolute necessity. For in accor­ dance with the first inference, reason takes it as already settled that something or other has to exist with absolute necessity. If it can now do away with everything that is not compatible with this necessity, except for one, then this is the absolutely necessary being, whether one can comprehend its necessity, i.e., derive it from its concept alone, or not.
 
 Now that the concept of which contains within itself the "Because" to every "Why?" -that which is in no part or respect defective, that which is in all ways sufficient as a condition -seems to be the being suited to absolute necessity just because by itself possessing all the conditions for everything possible, it itself needs no condition, and is indeed not even susceptible of one; consequently, it satisfies the concept of uncondi­ tioned necessity on at least one point, in which no other concept can a Sie, whose referent could grammatically be "reason" (or "every human reason"), but not "the natural course." b Boden 560 . .
 

 
(Simplified)
 
