A> dered in certain relationsa I call the fonn of appearance. Since that within which the sensations can alone be ordered and placed in a certain form cannot itself be in turn sensation, the matter of all appearance is only given to us posteriori, but its form must all lie ready for it in the mind a a priori, and can therefore be considered separately from all sensation.
 
 I call all representations pure (in the transcendental sense) in which nothing is to be encountered that belongs to sensation. Accordingly the pure form of sensible intuitions in general is to be encountered in the mind priori, wherein all of the manifold of appearances is intuited in a certain relations. This pure form of sensibility itself is also called pure B 35 intuition. So if I separate from the representation of a body that which the understanding thinks about it, such as substance, force, divisibility, A 2 I etc., as well as that which belongs to sensation, such as impenetrability, hardness, color, etc., something from this empirical intuition is still left for me, namely extension and form. These belong to the pure intuition, which occurs priori, even without an actual object of the senses or sen足 a sation, as a mere form of sensibility in the mind.
 
 I call a science of all principlesb of a priori sensibility the transcen足 dental aesthetic.*A There must therefore be such a science, which B 36 constitutes the first part of the transcendental doctrine of elements, in contrast to that which contains the principlesc of pure thinking, and is named transcendental logic.
 
 A2 I IB 35 * The Germans are the only ones who now employ the word "aesthetics" to designate that which others call the critique of taste. The ground for this is a failed hope, held by the excellent analyst Baumgarten, of bringing the critical estimation of the beautiful under principles of reason,d and elevating its rules to a science. But this effort is futile. For the putative rules or criteria are merely empirical as far as their sources are concerned, and can therefore never serve as priori rules according which our judgment of taste must be di足 a to rected, rather the latter constitutes the genuine touchstone of the correctness B36 of the former. For this reason it is advisable again to desist from the use ofthis term and to save it for that doctrine which is true science (whereby one would come closer to the language and the sense of the ancients, among whom the division of cognition into cHu8'Y]TU KaL vO'Y]Ta was very well known).
 
 a Verhiiltnissen. Kant uses the term Verhiiltnis throughout the "Transcendental Aesthetic" to denote the relation among several things occupying different positions in space or time, reserving the word Beziehung to denote the relation between objects and the cog足 nitive subject (in which sense it is used only four times, to be noted below, in the final section of the "Transcendental Aesthetic"). Since "relation" or its plural will thus almost always be translating Verhiiltnis or its plural, further notes of the occurrence of this term in the "Transcendental Aesthetic" will be omitted.
 
 Principien b , Principien Vernunftprincipien d 156 Section 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
