Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II each of them would be completely isolated, i.e., none would affect any other nor receive a reciprocal influence from it, then I say that their si­ multaneity would not be the object of a possible perception, and that B 259 the existence of the one could not lead to the existence of the other by any path of empirical synthesis. For if you thought that they were sep­ arated by a completely empty space, then the perception that proceeds from one to the other in time would certainly determine the existence of the latter by means of a succeeding perception, but would not be able to distinguish whether that appearance objectively follows the former or is rather simultaneous with it.
 
 In addition to the mere existence there must therefore be something through which A determines the position of B in time, and conversely also something by which B does the same for A, since only under this condition can those substances be empirically represented as existing simultaneously. Now only that determines the position of another in time which is the cause of it or its determinations. Thus each substance (since it can be a consequencea only with regard to its determinations) must simultaneously contain the causality of certain determinations in the other and the effects of the causality of the other, i.e., they must A 2 I 3 stand in dynamical community (immediately or mediately) if their si­ multaneity is to be cognized in any possible experience. But now every­ thing in regard to objects of experience is necessary without which the B 260 experience of these objects itself would be impossible. Thus it is neces­ sary for all substances in appearance, insofar as they are simultaneous, to stand in thoroughgoing community of interaction with each other.
 
 The word "community"b is ambiguous in our language, and can mean either communio or commercium. We use it here in the latter sense, c as a dynamical community, without which even the local community (communio spatii)d could never be empirically cognized. From our expe­ riences it is easy to notice that only continuous influence in all places in space can lead our sense from one object to another, that the light that plays between our eyes and the heavenly bodies effects a mediate com­ munity between us and the latter and thereby proves the simultaneity of the latter, and that we cannot empirically alter any place (perceive this alteration) without matter everywhere making the perception of our position possible; and only by means of its reciprocal influence can it establish their simultaneity and thereby the coexistence of even the most distant objects (though only mediately). Without community Falge a b Gemeinschaft , Le., "community" or "commerce," the former connoting membership in a common whole but not necessarily interaction among the parts, the latter connoting interaction.
 
 "Community of spaces," that is, a single spatial order or relationship among multiple d objects.
 
 318 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
