It wouldn’t be fair to criticize the second person, who knew how to connect his strange ideas with the goal of religion, and to hurt a well-meaning man just because he got confused when he moved beyond theory and nature. But we should also be fair to Hume, who was just as well-intentioned and had a good moral character. He couldn’t give up his abstract thinking because he believed that its subject was completely outside the limits of natural science, existing only in the world of pure ideas.

So, what should we do, especially about the possible problem this might cause for the common good? The answer is simple and fair. Let these people do what they want. If they show talent, deep research, or just plain reason, then reason will always win. If you try to stop them by force, call it treason, or bring in people who don’t understand the details to act like they’re putting out a fire, you just look silly. The real question isn’t what helps or hurts the common good, but how far reason can go when it thinks without any personal interest, and whether we can trust this kind of thinking at all or if we should just focus on practical matters.

Instead of attacking with a sword, you should watch this fight calmly from a safe place, like a critic. The fight might be tiring for those involved, but it will be interesting for you, and in the end, it won’t cause any real harm and will help you understand better. It’s crazy to expect reason to give us answers and at the same time tell it which side it has to be on. Besides, reason already limits itself so much that you don’t need to call in help to resist the side that seems too powerful or scary. In this kind of argument, there’s no real victory to worry about.

Reason actually needs these kinds of fights, and it would have been better if they had started earlier and been allowed openly. Then a mature criticism would have come sooner, and once that happened, all these arguments would have stopped because the people arguing would have realized the mistakes and biases that divided them.

There is something dishonest in human nature, which in the end...
