Ch. 1. Sec. II our controversy except by due process. What brings the quarrel in the state of nature to an end is a victory, of which both sides boast, although for the most part there follows only an uncertain peace, arranged by an A 752/ B 780 authority in the middle; but in the state of law it is the verdict, which, since it goes to the origin of the controversies themselves, must secure a perpetual peace. And the endless controversies of a merely dogmatic reason finally make it necessary to seek peace in some sort of critique of this reason itself, and in a legislation grounded upon it; just as Hobbes asserted, the state of nature is a state of injustice and violence, and one must necessarily leave it in order to submit himself to the lawful coer­ cion which alone limits our freedom in such a way that it can be consis­ tent with the freedom of everyone else and thereby with the common good.l?
 
 To this freedom, then, there also belongs the freedom to exhibit the thoughts and doubts which one cannot resolve oneself for public judg­ ment without thereupon being decried as a malcontent and a dangerous citizen. This lies already in the original right of human reason, which recognizes no other judge than universal human reason itself, in which everyone has a voice; and since all improvement of which our condition is capable must come from this, such a right is holy, and must not be curtailed. It is also very unwise to denounce as dangerous certain dar­ ing assertions or audacious attacks upon that which already has on its side the approval of the greatest and best part of the public: for that A753/B781 would be to give them an importance that they should not have at all.
 
 When I hear that an uncommon mind has demonstrated away the free­ dom of the human will, the hope of a future life, and the existence of God, I am eager to read the book, for I expect that his talent will ad­ vance my insights. I am completely certain in advance that he will not have accomplished any of this, not because I believe myself already to be in possession of incontrovertible proofs of these important proposi­ tions, but rather because the transcendental critique, which has revealed to me the entire stock of our pure reason, has completely convinced me that just as pure reason is entirely inadequate for affirmative assertions in this field, even less will it know what to do in order to be able to as­ sert something negative about these questions. For where would the supposed free-thinker derive his knowledge that, there is, e.g., no high­ est being? This proposition lies outside the field of possible experience, and therefore also beyond the boundaries of all human insight. The dogmatic defender of the good cause against this enemy I would not read at all, because I know in advance that he will only attack the illu­ sory grounds of the other in order to gain entry for his own, and that an everyday illusion does not give as much material for new observa­ tions as an alien one that is sensibly thought out. The enemy of reli7 541 782 gion, on the contrary, who is dogmatic in his own way, would give my A B 650 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use critique desirable occupation and occasion for some refinement of its principles, without his principles being anything to fear in the least.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
