The "Refutation of Idealism" is one of the most important of Kant's additions to the second edition, but the fact that before the new edition was even published he was already revising this revision in the new preface (presumably the last part to be rewritten) shows that Kant was hardly satisfied with his new argument. In fact, the new "Refutation" is not so much the culmination of a long-considered process of thought as the beginning of a new one, and a dozen or more further versions from the period 1788-90 survive to show that Kant continued to work on this argument even after the second edition of the Critique had al­ ready appeared. ,8, (6) Kant also undertook major revisions in the chapter on the dis­ tinction between phenomena and noumena. His primary concern in these revisions was to clarify the difference between using the concept of a noumenon in a negative and a positive sense. This can be regarded as a step toward clarifying his doctrine that whereas pure reason has only a negative theoretical use it does have a positive practical use, a doctrine the clarity of which had been challenged both by the Gottingen review and by Garve's original draft.
 
 (7) Having added a new "Refutation ofIdealism," Kant had no choice but to rewrite at least the fourth paralogism of the first edition, which above all other passages had given justification to the charge of Berkeleianism by insisting that we could be as certain of the objects of outer sense as of those of inner sense because objects in space are noth­ ing but one species of representation alongside representations of inner sense (see especially A370). Kant replaced this argument with a com­ pletely different, anti-Cartesian argument that there should be no puz­ zle about the possibility of interaction between mind and body because the differences in their appearances that Descartes and his followers had assumed to stand in the way of interaction might be no more than different appearances of a single sort of underlying reality (B 42 7-8).
 
 However, Kant did not confine himself to this change, but took the op­ portunity to rewrite and simplify the whole chapter on the paralogisms.
 
 Except for his substantive change in the fourth paralogism, this is the only part of his revisions that lives up to his pretense of merely im­ proving his manner of exposition (Bxxxvii).
 
 Beyond the "Paralogisms of Pure Reason," Kant made no further sig­ nificant changes for the second edition. We do not know if this means that he remained completely content with the remainder of the book, or only that he ran out of time and patience. His continuing restate­ ment and refinement in the second and third Critiques of many impor­ tant doctrines touched upon in the remainder of the book, such as his 72 Introduction theory of the postulates of practical reason and the regulative use of the ideas of reason, suggest the latter rather than the former explanation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
