Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III set by a systematic representation of the manifoldness of powers. The logical principle of reason demands this unity as far as it is possible to bring it about, and the more appearances of this power and that power are found to be identical, the more probable it becomes that they are nothing but various expressions of one and the same power, which can be called (comparatively) their fundamental power. One proceeds in just the same way with the rest of the powers.
 
 These comparatively fundamental powers must once again be com­ pared with one another, so as to discover their unanimity and thereby bring them close to a single radical, i.e., absolutely fundamental, power.
 
 But this unity of reason is merely hypothetical. One asserts not that such a power must in fact be found, but rather that one must seek it for the benefit of reason, namely for setting up certain principles b for the A6so/ B 678 many rules with which experience may furnish us, and that where it can be done, one must in such a way bring systematic unity into cognition.
 
 But if one attends to the transcendental use of the understanding, it is evident that this idea of a fundamental power in general does not functionc merely as a problemd for hypothetical use, but pretends to ob­ jective reality, so that the systematic unity of a substance's many powers are postulated and an apodictic principlee of reason is erected. For even without our having attempted to find the unanimity among the many powers, or indeed even when all such attempts to discover it have failed, we nevertheless presuppose that such a thing will be found; and it is not only, as in the case cited, on account of the unity of substance that rea­ son presupposes systematic unity among manifold powers, but rather reason does so even where many powers, though to a certain degree of the same kind, are found, as with matter in general, where particular natural laws stand under more general ones; and the parsimony of prin­ ciplesfis not merely a principle of economy for reason, but becomes an inner law of its nature.
 
 In fact it cannot even be seen how there could be a logical principleg of rational unity among rules unless a transcendental principleh is pre­ supposed, through which such a systematic unity, as pertaining to the A6SI/B679 objecti itself, is assumed priori as necessary. For by what warrant can a reason in its logical use claim to treat the manifoldness of the powers a Princip b Principien nicht ...b estimmt sei C Problem d Princip C f Principien Princip g Princip h Object i 594 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
