Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III ances of our soul, and then further to extend our cognition of this sub­ ject beyond all experience (to its state after death), makes things very convenient for reason, but also completely ruins and destroys every nat­ ural use of reason according to the guidance of experience. Thus the dogmatic spiritualist explains the unity of the person, which consists in remaining unaltered through all changes in its states, by the unity of a thinking substance, which he thinks he perceives immediately in the "I," and he explains the interest we take in things that are supposed to come to pass only after our death from the consciousness of the imma­ terial nature of our thinking subject, etc.; he presumes to dispense with all the natural investigation of the cause of these inner appearances of ours from physical grounds of explanation by, as it were, passing over the immanent sources of cognition in experience through an edict as it were of a transcendent reason, which makes things comfortable for him but also forfeits all insight. These disadvantageous consequences come to view even more clearly in the case of the dogmatism of our idea of a highest intelligence and the theological system of nature (physicoA69I/B719 theology) that is falsely grounded on it. For there all the ends showing themselves in nature, which are often only made up by us, serve only to make it extremely convenient for us in our search for causes, so that in­ stead of seeking them in the universal laws of the mechanism of matter, we appeal right away to the inscrutable decree of the highest wisdom, and regard the toil of reason as completed when in fact the use of rea­ son has been completely dispensed with -a use which finds its guiding thread nowhere unless it is provided to us by the order of nature and the series of alterations according to their internal and more general laws. This mistake can be avoided if we do not consider from the view­ point of ends merely a few parts of nature, e.g., the distribution of dry land, its structure and the constitution and situation of mountains, or even only the organization of the vegetable and animal kingdoms, but if we rather make the systematic unity of nature entirely universal in relation to the idea of a highest intelligence. For then we make a pur­ posiveness in accordance with universal laws of nature the ground, from which no particular arrangement is excepted, but arrangements are des­ ignated only in a way that is more or less discernible by us; then we have a regulative principlea of the systematic unity of a teleological connec­ tion, which, however, we do not determine beforehand, but may only A692 / B 720 expect while pursuing the physical-mechanical connection according to universal laws. For only in this way can the principleb of purposive unity always extend the use of reason in regard to experience without doing damage to it in any individual case.
 
 a Princip b Princip 616 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
