Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <B> outer sense, is clear of itself; but this is not at all sufficient for the ra­ tional psychologist, who undertakes to prove from mere concepts the absolute persistence of the soul even beyond life.* B 41 5 * Those who believe that they have done enough to get a new possibility started properly when they defy one to show a contradiction in its presuppositions (as are all those who believe that they have insight into the possibility of thinkB416 ing even after life has ceased, though they have an example of thinking only through the empirical intuitions in human life) can be brought into great em­ barrassment through other possibilities that are not the least bit bolder. Such a possibility is the division of a simple substance into several substances, or conversely, the fusing together (coalition) of several substances into a simple one. For although divisibility presupposes a composite, what it requires is not necessarily a composite made up of substances, but merely a composite of de­ grees (of several faculties) of one and the same substance. Just as one can think of all the powers and faculties of the soul, even that of consciousness, as dis­ appearing by halves, but in such a way that the substance always remains; so likewise one can without contradiction represent this extinguished half as pre­ served, yet not in it but outside it; onlya since everything real in it, conse­ quently having a degree, and so its whole existence, lacking in nothing, has been halved, another particular substance would arise outside it. For the mul­ tiplicity that was divided already existed previously, yet not as a multiplicity of substances, but rather of that reality as a quantum of existence in it, b and the unity of substance was only a way of existing, which through this division B 41 7 alone is transformed into a plurality of subsistence. But in this way too several simple substances could once again fuse together into one, and nothing would be lost except merely the plurality of subsistence, since the one substance would contain the degree of reality of all the previous ones together in itself; and perhaps the simple substance, which gives us the appearance of a matter (though of course not through a mechanical or chemical influence on each other, but through one unknown to us, of which these would be only the ap­ pearance) might produce offspring-souls through such a dynamic division of the parent-souls, as intensive magnitudes, which would meanwhile replace what had departed from them by a coalition with new material of the same kind. I am far from allowing any worth or validity to such figments of the brain, and the above principles' of the Analytic have sufficiently enjoined us to make none other than an experiential use of the categories (such as sub­ stance). But if the rationalist is keen to make the mere faculty of thinking into a self-subsisting being without any persisting intuition through which an ob­ ject is given, merely because for him the unity of apperception in thinking B418 allows ofn o explanation from something composite, instead of admitting, as would be better to do, that he does not know how to explain the possibility of a Reading nur with the fourth edition; earlier editions have undo in ihr, whose referent is presumably die Substanz; however, the context would appear to b require the pronoun to be plural: "in them" (in ihnen), sc. "in the substances." , Principien 450 On the paralogisms of pure reason <B> If we take the above propositions in a synthetic connection, as valid B 41 6 for all thinking beings, as they must be taken in rational psychology as a system, and if from the category of relation,a starting with the proposition "All thinking beings are, as such, substances" we go backward B417 through the series ofp ropositions until the circle closes, then we finally come up against the existence of thinking beings, which in this system are conscious of themselves not only as independent of external things but also as being able to determine themselves from themselves (in regard to the persistence belonging necessarily to the character of a sub- B418 stance).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
