Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> cises that action on the passive subject, whose faculty it is, about B 154 which we rightly say that the inner sense is thereby affected. Apper­ ception and its synthetic unity is so far from being the same as the inner sense that the former, rather, as the source of all combination, applies to all sensible intuition of objects in general, to the manifold a of intuitions in general, under the name of the categories; inner sense, on the contrary, contains the mere form of intuition, but with­ out combination of the manifold in it, and thus it does not yet contain any determinate intuition at all, which is possible only through the consciousness of the determination of the manifold through the tran­ scendental action of the imagination (synthetic influence of the un­ derstanding on the inner sense), which I have named the figurative synthesis.
 
 We also always perceive this in ourselves. We cannot think of a line without drawing it in thought, we cannot think of a circle without de­ scribing it, we cannot represent the three dimensions of space at all without placing three lines perpendicular to each other at the same point, and we cannot even represent time without, in drawing a straight line (which is to be the external figurative representation of time), attending merely to the action of the synthesis of the manifold through which we successively determine the inner sense, and thereby attending to the succession of this determination in inner sense.
 
 B ISS Motion, as action of the subject (not as determination of an object),*,b consequently the synthesis of the manifold in space, if we abstract from this manifold in space and attend solely to the action in accordance with which we determine the form of inner sense, first produces the con­ cept of succession at all. The understanding therefore does not find some sort of combination of the manifold already in inner sense, but produces it, by affecting inner sense. But how the I that I think is to differ from the I that intuits itself (for I can represent other kinds of in­ tuition as at least possible) and yet be identical with the latter as the same subject, how therefore I can say that I as intelligence and think* Motion of an object' in space does not belong in a pure science, thus also not in geometry; for that something is movable cannot be cognized priori but a only through experience. But motion, as description of a space, is a pure acrt of the successive synthesis of the manifold in outer intuition in general through productive imagination, and belongs not only to geometry but even to transcendental philosophy.
 
 Objecte n Objects b , Object Actus d 258 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
