Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II <A> AII4 nection according to necessary laws, and hence in a transcendental affinity, of which the empirical affinity is the mere consequence.
 
 That nature should direct itself according to our subjective ground of apperception, indeed in regard to its lawfulness even depend on this, may well sound quite contradictory and strange. But if one considers that this nature is nothing in itself but a sum of appearances, hence not a thing in itself but merely a multitude of representations of the mind, then one will not be astonished to see that unity on account of which alone it can be called object of all possible experience, i.e., nature, a solely in the radical faculty of all our cognition, namely, transcendental apperception; and for that very reason we can cognize this unity pri­ a ori, hence also as necessary, which we would certainly have to abandon if it were given in itself independently of the primary sources of our thinking. For then I would not know whence we should obtain the syn­ thetic propositions of such a universal unity of nature, since in this case one would have to borrow them from the objects of nature itself. But since this could happen only empirically, from that nothing but merely contingent unity could be drawn, which would fall far short of the nec­ essary connection that one has in mind when one speaks of nature.
 
 AII5 Of the Deduction of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding Third Section On the relationb of the understanding to objects in general and the possibility of cognizing these priori.
 
 a What we have expounded separately and individually in the previous section we will now represent as unified and in connection. The possi­ bility of an experience in general and cognition of its objects rest on three subjective sources of cognition: sense, imagination, and apper­ ception; each of these can be considered empirically, namely in appli­ cation to given appearances, but they are also elements or foundations priori that make this empirical use itself possible. Sense represents the a appearances empirically in perception, the imagination in association (and reproduction), and apperception in the empirical consciousness of the identity of these reproductive representations with the appear­ ances through which they were given, hence in recognition.
 
 But pure intuition (with regard to it as representation, time, the form of inner intuition) grounds the totality of perception priori; the pure a AII6 synthesis of the imagination grounds association priori; and pure apa a Object Verhiltnl isse b 236 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
