On the empirical use of the regulative principle only thing we had to do to remove the apparent antinomy, and it could be done only in this way. For if for every conditioned the condition is always sensible (in its existence), and therefore something belonging to the series, then the condition is itself once again conditioned (as the an­ tithesis of the fourth antinomy shows). Thus either reason, in demand­ ing the unconditioned, must remain in conflict with itself, or else this unconditioned must be posited outside the series in the intelligible realm, where necessity is neither demanded nor permitted by any em­ pirical condition, and thus in respect of appearances it is uncondition­ ally necessary.
 
 The empirical use of reason (in regard to the conditions of existence in the world of sense) is not affected by the admission of a merely in­ telligible being; rather it proceeds, according to the principle a of thor­ oughgoing contingency, from empirical conditions to higher ones, which are likewise always empirical. But just as little does this regula­ tive principle exclude the assumption of an intelligible cause which is not in the series, when it is a matter of the pure use of reason (in regard to its ends). For here the intelligible cause signifies only the ground, for us transcendental and unknown, of the possibility of the sensible series in general, whose existence, independent of all conditions of the latter and unconditionally necessary in regard to it, is not at all opposed to the unbounded contingency of the former, and is therefore also not op- A 565 / B 593 posed to the regress, which is never ended, in the series of empirical conditions.
 
 Concluding remark to the entire antinomy of pure reason.
 
 As long as we, with our concepts of reason, have as our object merely the totality of the conditions in the world of sense, and what service rea­ son can perform in respect of them, our ideas are transcendental but still cosmological. But as soon as we posit the unconditioned (which is what is really at issue) in that which lies outside the sensible world, and hence in that which is outside all possible experience, then the ideas come to be transcendent; they do not serve merely to complete the empirical use of reason (which always remains an idea, never to be com­ pletely carried out, but nevertheless to be followed), rather they sepa­ rate themselves entirely from it and make themselves into objects whose matter is not drawn from experience, and whose objective reality rests not on the completion of the empirical series but on pure concepts a priori. Such transcendent ideas have a merely intelligible object, which a Princip 549 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
