Nevertheless the illusion of this logical necessity has proved so powerful that when one has made a concept a priori of a thing that was set up so that its existence was comprehended within the range of its meaning, one believed one could infer with cer­ tainty that because existence necessarily pertains to the object" of this concept, i.e., under the condition that I posit this thing as given (exist­ ing), its existence can also be posited necessarily (according to the rule of identity), and this being itself, therefore, is necessarily, because its ex­ istence is thought along with a concept assumed arbitrarily and under the condition that I posit its object.
 
 If I cancel the predicate in an identical judgment and keep the sub­ ject, then a contradiction arises; hence I say that the former necessarily pertains to the latter. But if I cancel the subject together with the pred­ icate, then no contradiction arises; for there is no longer anything that could be contradicted. To posit a triangle and cancel its three angles is contradictory; but to cancel the triangle together with its three angles is not a contradiction. It is exactly the same with the concept of an absolutely necessary being. If you cancel its existence, then you cancel the A 595 / B 62 3 thing itself with all its predicates; where then is the contradiction supposed to come from? Outside it there is nothing that would contradict it, for the thing is not supposed to be externally necessary; and nothing internally either, for by cancelling the thing itself, you have at the same time cancelled everything internal. God is omnipotent; that is a necessary judgment. Omnipotence cannot be cancelled if you posit a divinity, i.e., an infinite being, which is identical with that concept. But if you say, God is not, then neither omnipotence nor any other of his predicates is given; for they are all cancelled together with the subject, and in this thought not the least contradiction shows itself.
 
 Thus you have seen that if I cancel the predicate of a judgment to­ gether with the subject, an internal contradiction can never arise, what­ ever the predicate might be. Now no escape is left to you except to say: there are subjects that cannot be cancelled at all and thus have to re­ main. But that would be the same as saying that there are absolutely necessary subjects -just the presupposition whose correctness I have doubted, and the possibility of which you wanted to show me. For I can­ not form the least concept of a thing that, if all its predicates were cancelled, would leave behind a contradiction, and without a contradiction, A596/B624 I have through mere pure concepts priori no mark of impossibility.
 
 a Against all these general inferences (which no human being can refuse to draw) you challenge me with one case that you set up as a proof through the fact that there is one and indeed only this one con­ cept where the non-being or the cancelling of its object is contradictory Object a 565 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
