The essential difference between these two kinds of rational cogni足 tion therefore consists in this form, and does not rest on the difference in their matter, or objects. Those who thought to distinguish philoso足 phy from mathematics by saying of the former that it has merely qual足 ity while the latter has quantity as its object a have taken the effect for the cause. The form of mathematical cognition is the cause of its per足 taining solely to quanta. For only the concept of magnitudes can be constructed, i.e., exhibited a priori in intuition, while qualities cannot be exhibited in anything but empirical intuition. Hence a rational cog- A7IS/B743 nition of them can be possible only through concepts. Thus no one can ever derive an intuition corresponding to the concept of reality from anywhere except experience, and can never partake of it a priori from oneself and prior to empirical consciousness. The shape of a cone can be made intuitive without any empirical assistance, merely in accordance with the concept, but the color of this cone must first be given in one experience or another. I cannot exhibit the concept of a cause in general in intuition in any way except in an example given to me byexperience, etc. Now philosophy as well as mathematics does deal with magnitudes, e.g., with totality, infinity, etc. And mathematics also occupies itself with the difference between lines and planes as spaces with different quality, and with the continuity of extension as a quality of it.
 
 But although in such cases they have a common object, the manner of dealing with it through reason is entirely different in philosophical than in mathematical consideration. The former confines itself solely to general concepts, the latter cannot do anything with the mere concepts but hurries immediately to intuition, in which it considers the concept in concreto, although not empirically, but rather solely as one which it has exhibited a priori, i.e., constructed, and in which that which follows A7I6/B744 from the general conditions of the construction must also hold generally of the objecrl' of the constructed concept.
 
 Give a philosopher the concept of a triangle, and let him try to find out in his way how the sum of its angles might be related to a right angle. He has nothing but the concept of a figure enclosed by three straight lines, and in it the concept of equally many angles. Now he may Object a Objecte b 631 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
