Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> concept of a substance, i.e., that of something that could exist as a sub­ ject but never as a mere predicate; for I would not even know whether there could be anything that corresponded to this determination of thought if empirical intuition did not give me the case for its applica­ tion. But more of this in the sequel.
 
 BI50 § 24· On the application of the categories to objects of the senses in general.
 
 The pure concepts of the understanding are related through the mere understanding to objects of intuition in general, without it being deter­ mined whether this intuition is our own or some other but still sensible one, but they are on this account mere forms of thought, through which no determinate object is yet cognized. The synthesis or combi­ nation of the manifold in them was related merely to the unity of ap­ perception, and was thereby the ground of the possibility of cognition a priori insofar as it rests on the understanding, and was therefore not only transcendental but also merely purely intellectual. But since in us a certain form of sensible intuition a priori is fundamental, which rests on the receptivity of the capacity for representation (sensibility), the understanding, as spontaneity, can determine the manifold of given rep­ resentations in accord with the synthetic unity of apperception, and thus think a priori synthetic unity of the apperception of the manifold of sensible intuition, as the condition under which all objects of our (human) intuition must necessarily stand, through which then the cate­ gories, as mere forms of thought, acquire objective reality, i.e., applicaB 151 tion to objects that can be given to us in intuition, but only as appear­ ances; for of these alone are we capable of intuition a priori.
 
 This synthesis of the manifold of sensible intuition, which is possible and necessary a priori, can be called figurative (synthesis speciosa), as dis­ tinct from that which would be thought in the mere category in regard to the manifold of an intuition in general, and which is called combina­ tion of the understanding (synthesis intellectualis); both are transcenden­ tal, not merely because they themselves proceed a priori but also because they ground the possibility of other cognition a priori.
 
 Yet the figurative synthesis, if it pertains merely to the original syn­ thetic unity of apperception, i.e., this transcendental unity, which is thought in the categories, must be called, as distinct from the merely in­ tellectual combination, the transcendental synthesis of the imagina­ tion. Imaginationa is the faculty for representing an object even with­ out its presence in intuition. Now since all of our intuition is sensible, a Here Kant uses both large type and spacing for extra emphasis.
 
 256 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
