The regulative principle of pure reason there nowhere an empirical ground to stop the division, but the further members of the continuing division are themselves empirically given prior to this ongoing division, i.e., the division goes to infinity. On the contrary, the series of ancestors for a given human being is not given in its absolute totality in any possible experience, but the regress goes from each member of this generation to a higher one, so that no em­ pirical boundary is to be encountered that would exhibit one member as absolutely unconditioned. But since the members that might supply the conditions for it nevertheless do not already lie in the empirical in­ tuition of the whole prior to the regress, this regress does not go to in­ finity (by division of the given) but goes to an indeterminate distance, searching for more members for the given, which are once again always given only conditionally.
 
 In neither of these two cases, that of the regressus in infinitum as well A 5 14/ B 542 as in that of the in indefinitum, is the series of conditions regarded as being given as infinite in the object.a It is not things in themselves that are given, but only appearances, which, as conditions of one another, are given only in the regress itself. Thus the question is no longer how big this series of conditions is in itself -whether it is finite or infinite -for it is nothing in itself; rather, the question is how we are to institute the empirical regress and how far we are to continue it. And then there is a difference worth noting in regard to the rule to be followed in this progress. If the whole has been empirically given, then it is possible to go back to infinity in the series of its inner conditions. But if that whole is not given, but rather is first to be given only through an empirical regress, then I can say only that it is possible to progress to still higher conditions in the series to infinity. In the first case I could say: There are always more members there, and empirically given, than I reach through the regress (of decomposition); but in the second case I can say only: I can always go still further in the regress, because no member is empirically given as absolutely unconditioned, and thus a higher member may be admitted as possible and hence the inquiry after it may be admitted as necessary. In the former case it was necessary to encounter more members of the series, but in the latter case it is always necessary to inquire after more of them, because no experience is bounded ab- A51S/BS43 solutely. For you have either no perception that absolutely bounds your empirical regress, and then you must not hold your regress to be complete; or if you have such a perception bounding your series, then this cannot be a part of your regressive series (because that which bounds must be distinguished from that which is bounded by it), and so you have to continue your regress further to this condition, and so on.
 
 Object a 523 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
