Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II causality must stand under empirical laws. As such he must accordingly also have an empirical character, just like all other natural things. We notice it through powers and faculties which it expresses in its effects.
 
 In the case of lifeless nature and nature having merely animal life, we find no ground for thinking of any faculty which is other than sensibly conditioned. Yet the human being, who is otherwise acquainted with the whole of nature solely through sense, knowso himself also through pure apperception, and indeed in actions and inner determinations which cannot be accounted at all amongb impressions of sense; he ob­ viously is in one part phenomenon, but in another part, namely in re­ gard to certain faculties, he is a merely intelligible object, because the A 547/ B 575 actions of this object cannot at all be ascribedc to the receptivity of sen­ sibility. We call these faculties understanding and reason; chiefly the latter is distinguished quite properly and preeminently from all empir­ ically conditioned powers, since it considers its objects merely ac­ cording to ideas and in accordance with them determines the under­ standing, which then makes an empirical use of its own concepts (even the pure ones).
 
 Now that this reason has causality,d or that we can at least represent something of the sort in it, is clear from the imperatives that we pro­ pose e as rules to our powers of execution in everything practical. 83 The ought expresses a species of necessity and a connection with grounds which does not occur anywhere else in the whole of nature. In nature the understanding can cognize only what exists, or has been, or will be.
 
 lt is impossible that something in it ought to be other than what, in all these time-relations/ it in fact is; indeed, the ought, if one has merely the course of nature before one's eyes, has no significance whatever. We cannot ask at all what ought to happen in nature, any more than we can ask what properties a circle ought to have; but we must rather ask what happens in nature, or what properties the circle has.
 
 Now this "ought" expresses a possible action, the ground of which is nothing other than a mere concept, whereas the ground of a merely A 548 / B 576 natural action must always be an appearance. Now of course the action must be possible under natural conditions if the ought is directed to it; but these natural conditions do not concern the determination of the power of choice itself, but only its effect and result in appearance. Howa erkennt b gar nicht zum ...z dhlen kann , gar nicht zur ...g ezdhlt werden kann d Kant notes: "i.e., is the cause of actuality of its objects [Objectel. This causality is called the will. But in transcendental philosophy one abstracts from the will." (E CLXXV; p.
 
 52; 23:50) , aufgeben f Zeitverhdltnisse 540 Section IX.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
