For it merely masks mistakes and errors, and deceives philosophy, the proper aim of which is to allow all of the steps of reason to be seen in the clearest light. Nevertheless, the method can always be systematic. For our reason itself (subjectively) is a system, but in its pure use, A 738/ 766 B by means of mere concepts, only a system for research in accordance with principles of unity, for which experience alone can give the matter. Of the special method of a transcendental philosophy, however, nothing can here be said, since we are concerned only with a critique of the circumstances of our faculty -whether we can build at all, and how high we can carry our building with the materials that we have (the pure priori concepts).
 
 a First Chapter Second Section The discipline of pure reason with regard to its polemical use.
 
 Reason must subject itself to critique in all its undertakings, and cannot restrict the freedom of critique through any prohibition without dam足 aging itself and drawing upon itself a disadvantageous suspicion. Now there is nothing so important because of its utility, nothing so holy, that it may be exempted from this searching review and inspection, which knows no respect for persons. The very existencea of reason depends upon this freedom, which has no dictatorial authority, but whose claim is never anything more than the agreement of free citizens, each of whom must be able to express his reservations, indeed even his veto, A 739/ 767 B without holding back.
 
 But now although reason can never refuse critique, it does not al足 ways have cause to shrink from it. Pure reason in its dogmatic (not mathematical) use is not, however, so conscious of the most exact ob足 servation of its supreme laws that it can appear before the critical eye of a higher and judicial reason except with modesty, indeed with a com足 plete renunciation of all pretensions to dogmatic authority.
 
 But it is quite different if it does not have to deal with the censure of a judge, but with the claims of its fellow citizens, against which it has merely to defend itself. For since the latter would be just as dogmatic, though in denial, as reason would be in its affirmation, there can be a justification xm;' <'iv8go)Jtov,b which secures it against all interference and provides it with a title to its possession that need shrink from no a Existenz b ad hominem (i.e., according to the person) 643 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
