Ch. I. Sec. II A 748 / B 776 like everything else that comes from nature, must contain a tendency to good purposes, namely an inclination to hide its true dispositions and to make a show of certain assumed ones that are held to be good and creditable. It is quite certain that through this propensity to conceal themselves as well as to assume an appearance that is advantageous for them humans have not merely civilized themselves but gradually mor­ alized themselves to a certain degree, since no one could penetrate the mask of respectability, honorableness, and propriety, and one therefore found a school for self-improvement in the supposedly genuine exam­ ples of the good which he saw around himself. Yet this tendency a to pretend to be better than one is and to express dispositionsb that one does not have serves as it were only provisionally to bring the human being out of his crudeness and first allow him to assume at least the manner of the good, which he recognizes; for later, when the genuine principles have finally been developed and incorporated into his way of thought, that duplicity must gradually be vigorously combated, for oth­ erwise it corrupts the heart, and good dispositions cannot grow among the rampant weeds of fair appearance I am sorry to perceive the very same dishonesty, misrepresentation, and hypocrisy even in the utterances of the speculative way of thinking, where human beings have far fewer hindrances to and no advantage at all in forthrightly confessing their thoughts openly and unreservedly.
 
 A 749/ 777 For what can be more disadvantageous to insight than falsely com­ B municating even mere thoughts, than concealing doubts which we feel about our own assertions, or giving a semblance of self-evidence to grounds of proof which do not satisfy ourselves? As long as these machinations arise merely from private vanity (which is usually the case in speculative judgments, which have no special interest and are not readily liable to apodictic certainty), then the vanity of others resists them with public approval, and in the end things end up at the same point to which they would have been brought, though much earlier, by the most honest disposition and sincerity. But where the public holds that subtle sophistsd are after nothing less than to shake the foundation of the public welfare, then it seems not only prudent but also permissi­ ble and even creditable to come to the aid of the good cause with spu­ rious grounds rather than to give its putative enemies even the advantage of lowering our voice to the modesty of a merely practical conviction and necessitating us to admit the lack of speculative and apo­ dictic certainty. I should think, however, that there is nothing in the " Anlage Gesinnungen b , des scho"nen Scheins Vernunftler d 648 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use world less compatible with the aim of maintaining a good cause than duplicity, misrepresentation, and treachery.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
