However it may be with the possibility of concepts from pure reason, they are not merely reflected concepts but inferred concepts. Concepts B 367 of the understanding are also thought a priori before experience and on behalf of it; but they contain nothing beyond the unity of reflection on appearances, insofar as these appearances are supposed to belong nec­ essarily to a possible empirical consciousness. Through them alone is cognition, and determination of an object, possible. They also first give material for inferring, and no a priori concepts of objects precede them, from which they could be inferred. On the contrary, their objective re­ ality is founded solely on the fact that because they constitute the intel­ lectual form of all experience, it must always be possible to show their application in experience.
 
 The term "a concept of reason," however, already shows in a provi­ sional way that such a concept will not let itself be limited to experience, 3 I I because it deals with a cognition (perhaps the whole of possible experi­ A ence or its empirical synthesis) of which the empirical is only one part; no actual experience is fully sufficient for it, but every experience be­ longs to it. Concepts of reason serve for comprehension, just as con­ cepts of the understanding serve for understanding (of perceptions). If they contain the unconditioned, then they deal with something under which all experience belongs, but that is never itself an object of expe­ rience; something to which reason leads through its inferences, and by which reason estimates and measures the degree of its empirical use, B 368 but that never constitutes a member of the empirical synthesis. If de­ spite this such concepts have objective validity, then they can be called conceptus ratiocinati a (correctly inferred concepts); but if not, they have at least been obtained by a surreptitious illusion of inference, and so might be called conceptus ratiocinantesb (sophistical concepts). Since, however, this can be made out only in the chapter on dialectical infera reasoned concepts b ratiocinated concepts 394 Section I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
