The meta足 physics of thinking nature is called psychology, and because of the cause that has just been adduced only the rational cognition of this is here meant.
 
 Accordingly, the entire system of metaphysics consists of four main parts. I. Ontology. 2. Rational Physiology. 3. Rational Cosmology.
 
 4. Rational Theology. The second part, namely the doctrine of nature of pure reason, contains two divisions,physica rationalis* andpsychologia A847/B875 rationalis.48 The original idea of a philosophy of pure reason itself prescribes this division; it is therefore architectonic, in conformity with its essential ends, and not merely technical, in accordance with contingently per足 ceived affinities and, as it were, established by good luck; and for that very reason it is unchangeable and legislative. However, there are sev足 eral points here which could arouse reservations and weaken the con足 viction of its lawfulness.
 
 First, how can 1 expect an a priori cognition and thus a metaphysics of objects that are given to our senses, thus given a posteriori? And how is it possible to cognize the nature of things in accordance with a priori principles a and to arrive at a rational physiology? The answer is: We A848/ B 876 take from experience nothing more than what is necessary to give ourselves an object, b partly of outer and partly of inner sense. The former is accomplished through the mere concept of matter (impenetrable lifeless extension), the latter through the concept of a thinking being (in the empirically inner representation "1 think"). Otherwise, we must in the entire metaphysics of these objects abstain entirely from any empirical principles' that might add any sort of experience beyond the concept in order to judge something about these objects.
 
 * One should not think, indeed, that I understand by this what is commonly A 847/ B 875 called physica generalis, which is more mathematics than philosophy of nature.
 
 For the metaphysics of nature abstracts entirely from mathematics, and has nowhere near as many ampliative insights to offer as the latter, yet it is still very important with regard to the critique of the pure cognition of understanding that is to be applied to nature in general; in its absence even mathematicians, depending on certain common but in fact metaphysical concepts, have without noticing it burdened the doctrine of nature with hypotheses that d disappear in a critique of these principles without doing the least damage to the use of mathematics in this field (which is entirely indispensable).
 
 a Principien b Object , Principien d Principien 699 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
