Systematic representation of all synthetic principles rience, hence of the cognition of an objecta given in empirical intuition, and not from mere concepts. That the proposition "Everything contingent must have a cause" may be evident to everyone from mere concepts is not to be denied; but then the concept of the contingent is B 290 already taken in such a way that it contains, not the category of modality (as something, the non-existence of which can be thought), but that of relationb (as something that can only exist as the consequence of something else), and then it is, of course, an identical proposition: "V\1hat can only exist as a consequence has its cause." In fact, when we are to give examples of contingent existence, we always appeal to alterations and not merely to the possibility of the thought of the oppo­ site.*,91 Alteration, however, is an occurrence that is possible as such B29I only through a cause, the non-being ofw hich is thus possible in itself; and thus one cognizes contingency from the fact that something can exist only as the effect of a cause; thus if a thing is assumed to be con­ tingent, it's an analytic proposition to say that it has a cause.
 
 It is even more remarkable, however, that in order to understand the possibility of things in accordance with the categories, and thus to es­ tablish the objective reality of the latter, we do not merely need intu­ itions, but always outer intuitions. If we take, e.g., the pure concept of relation,c we find that I) in order to give something that persists in in­ tuition, corresponding to the concept of substance (and thereby to es­ tablish the objective reality of this concept), we need an intuition in space (of matter), since space alone persistently determines, while time, however, and thus everything that is in inner sense, constantly flows. 2) In order to exhibit alteration as the intuition corresponding to the con­ cept of causality, we must take motion, as alteration in space, as our ex­ ample, indeed only by that means can we make alterations, the possibility of which cannot be comprehended by any pure understand* One can easily think of the not-being of matter, but the ancients did not infer B 290 its contingency from that. And even the change from the being to the nonbeing of a given state of a thing, in which all alteration consists, does not prove the contingency of this state at all, as it were, from the actuality of its opposite; e.g., the rest of the body that follows its motion still does not prove the contingency of its motion just because the former is the opposite of the latter.
 
 For this opposite is here opposed to the other only logically, not realiter. In order to prove the contingency of the motion of the body, one would have to prove that instead of the motion in the preceding point of time, the body could have been at rest then, not that it rests later; for in the later case the two opposites are perfectly consistent.
 
 " Objects Relation b C Relation 335 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
