Since B 10, this process does give us real knowledge beforehand, which helps reason make steady and useful progress. But without realizing it, reason also makes other kinds of claims where it adds something totally new to the ideas we already have. It does this beforehand, without us knowing how or even questioning it. So, I will explain the difference between these two types of knowledge right from the start.

Iv.c On the difference between analytic and synthetic judgments.

14 In all judgments where we think about how a subject and a predicate are connected (I’m only talking about positive judgments because it’s easy to apply this to negative ones), this connection can happen in two ways.

Either the predicate B is already contained, even if hidden, in the idea of subject A; or B is completely outside the idea of A but still related to it. The first kind is called an analytic judgment, the second is called a synthetic judgment. Analytic judgments are when the connection between subject and predicate is based on identity, but synthetic judgments are when the connection happens without identity.

You could also call the first kind "judgments of clarification," and the second kind "judgments of amplification." This is because the predicate in the first kind doesn’t add anything new to the idea of the subject, it just breaks it down into parts that were already there but not clear. The second kind, on the other hand, adds a new idea to the subject that wasn’t there before and couldn’t be found just by breaking down the subject.

For example, if I say, "All bodies are extended," that’s an analytic judgment. I don’t need to look beyond the idea of a body to see that extension is part of it. I just need to analyze the idea of a body and realize that extension is included. So this is an analytic judgment.

But if I say, "All bodies are heavy," then the idea of heaviness is something totally different from just the idea of a body. This is a synthetic judgment because the predicate (heavy) is not part of the subject’s idea (body).
