Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> prescribe to the appearances through mere categories a priori laws beyond those on which rests a nature in general, as lawfulness of ap­ pearances in space and time. Particular laws, because they concern em­ pirically determined appearances, cannot be completely derived from the categories, although they all stand under them. Experience must be added in order to come to know particular laws at all; but about expe­ rience in general, and about what can be cognized as an object of expe­ rience, only those a priori laws offer instruction.
 
 § 27· Result of this deduction of the concepts of the understanding.
 
 We cannot think any object except through categories; we cannot cog­ nize any object that is thought except through intuitions that corre­ spond to those concepts. Now all our intuitions are sensible, and this cognition, so far as its object is given, is empirical. Empirical cognition, B 166 however, is experience. Consequently no a priori cognition is possible for us except solely of objects of possible experience.* But this cognition, which is limited merely to objects of experience, is not on that account all borrowed from experience; rather, with regard to the pure intuitions as well as the pure concepts of the understanding, there are elements of cognition that are to be encountered in us a pri­ ori. Now there are only two ways in which a necessary agreement of experience with the concepts of its objects can be thought: either the experience makes these concepts possible or these concepts make the B 167 experience possible. The first is not the case with the categories (nor with pure sensible intuition); for they are a priori concepts, hence inde­ pendent of experience (the assertion of an empirical origin would be a sort of generatio aequivoca).a Consequently only the second way remains B r66 * So that one may not prematurely take issue with the worrisome and disad­ vantageous consequences of this proposition, I will only mention that the cat­ egories are not restricted in thinking by the conditions of our sensible intuition, but have an unbounded field, and only the cognition of objects that we think, the determination of the object,b requires intuition; in the absence of the latter, the thought of the object' can still have its true and useful con­ sequences for the use of the subject's reason, which, however, cannot be ex­ pounded here, for it is not always directed to the determination of the object, thus to cognition, but rather also to that of the subject and its willing.
 
 a The generation of one sort of thing out of something essentially different, e.g., the sup­ posed generation of flies from rotting meat.
 
 Object b , Object '.
 
 264 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
