Ch. 1. Sec. II A 764/ B 792 know. All failed dogmatic attempts of reason aref acta, which it is always useful to subject to censure. But this cannot decide anything about rea­ son's expectations of hoping for better success in its future efforts and making claims to that; mere censure can therefore never bring to an end the controversy about what is lawfula in human reason.
 
 Since Hume is perhaps the most ingenious of all skeptics, and is in­ controvertibly the preeminent one with regard to the influence that the skeptical procedure can have on awakening a thorough examination of reason, it is well worth the trouble to make clear, to the extent that is appropriate to my aim, the path of his inferences and the aberrations of such an insightful and valuable man, which nevertheless began on the trail of truth.
 
 Hume perhaps had it in mind, although he never fully developed it, that in judgments of a certain kind we go beyond our concept of the ob­ ject. I have called this sort of judgment synthetic. There is no difficulty about how, by means of experience, I can go beyond the concepts that I possess thus far. Experience is itself a synthesis of perceptions that aug­ ments my concept which I have by means of one perception by the ad­ dition of others. But we also believe ourselves to be able to go beyond A 765 / B 793 our concepts a priori and to amplify our cognition. We attempt to do this either through pure understanding, with regard to that which can at least be an ob;ecti' of experience, or even through pure reason, with re­ gard to such properties of things, or even with regard to the existence of such objects, that can never come forth in experience. Our skeptic did not distinguish these two kinds of judgments, as he should have, and for that reason held this augmentation of concepts out of themselves and the parthenogenesis, so to speak, of our understanding (together with rea­ son), without impregnation by experience, to be impossible; thus he held all of its supposedly a priori principles' to be merely imagined, and found that they are nothing but a custom arising from experience and its laws, thus are merely empirical, i.e., intrinsically contingent rules, to which we ascribe a supposed necessity and universality. However, for the assertion of this disturbing proposition he referred to the universally acknowl­ edged principle of the relationship of cause to effect. Since in that case no faculty of understanding can lead us from the concept of a thing to the existence of something else which is thereby universally and neces­ sarily given, he believed that he could infer from this that without expe­ rience we have nothing that could augment our concept and justify us in making such a judgment, which amplifies itself a priori. That the sunlight A 766/ B 794 that illuminates the wax also melts it, though it hardens clay, undera die Recbtsame b Object , Principien 656 The discipline of pure reason in polemical use standing could not discover let alone lawfully infer from the concepts that we antecedently have of these things, and only experience could teach us such a law.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
