Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> A 364 Even if the saying of some ancient schools, that everything is transitory and nothing in the world is persisting and abiding/9 cannot hold as soon as one assumes substances, it is still not refuted through the unity of self-consciousness. For we cannot judge even from our own consciousness whether as soul we are persisting or not, because we as­ cribe to our identical Self only that of which we are conscious; and so we must necessarily judge that we are the very same in the whole of the time of which we are conscious. But from the standpoint of someone else we cannot declare this to be valid because, since in the soul we en­ counter no persisting appearance other than the representation "I," which accompanies and connects all of them, we can never make out whether this I (a mere thought) does not flow as well as all the other thoughts that are linked to one another through it.
 
 A36S It is remarkable, however, that personality, and its presupposition, persistence, hence the substantiality of the soul, must be proved only now for the first time. For if we could presuppose these, then what would of course follow is not the continuous duration of consciousness, but rather the possibility of a continuing consciousness in an abiding subject, which is already sufficient for personality, since that does not cease at once just because its effect is perhaps interrupted for a time.
 
 This persistence, however, is not given to us through anything prior to the numerical identity of our Self, which we conclude from identical apperception, but rather is concluded for the first time from it (and, if things went rightly, we would have to conclude from this first of all the concept of substance, which is usable only empirically). Now since this identity of person in no way follows from the identity of the I in the consciousness of all the time in which I cognize myself, even the sub­ stantiality of the soul cannot be grounded on it above.
 
 Meanwhile, the concept of personality, just like the concepts of sub­ stance and of the simple, can remain (insofar as it is merely transcen­ dental, i.e., a unity of the subject which is otherwise unknown to us, but in whose determinations there is a thoroughgoing connection of apper­ ception), and to this extent this concept is also necessary and sufficient A 366 for practical use; but we can never boast of it as an extension ofo ur self­ knowledgea through pure reason, which dazzles us with the uninter­ rupted continuous duration of the subject drawn from the mere concept of the identical self, since this concept merely revolves in a circle around itself and brings us no farther in regard to even one single ques­ tion about synthetic cognition. VVhat matter is, as a thing in itself (tran­ scendental object),b is of course entirely unknown to us; nevertheless its persistence will be observed as appearance as long as it is represented to a Selbsterkenntnis Object b 424 Chapter 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
