When we talk about all the basic rules that create new ideas, even if I don’t actually think about the extra part when I describe something, it’s still just one specific statement. Here, we are only combining things that are the same kind (like numbers), so this combination can only happen in one way, even though later we might use these numbers in a general way.

For example, if I say: "With three lines, two of which together are longer than the third, you can draw a triangle," I’m using my imagination to make the lines longer or shorter and put them at any angle I want. But the number 7 or the number 12 (which comes from combining 7 and 5) can only be made in one way. These kinds of statements aren’t called basic truths (axioms) because there would be too many of them, but instead they are called number formulas.

This special rule about math and how we see things gives us a big boost in what we can know before we actually experience things. It’s the only thing that makes pure math perfectly fit the things we experience, which wouldn’t be obvious without this rule and has caused a lot of confusion.

What we see are not things as they really are. We can only understand what we see because of pure ways we sense space and time. What geometry says about space and time is definitely true for what we see. So, it doesn’t make sense to say that objects we sense don’t have to follow the rules of space, like how lines can be divided infinitely or how angles work. Saying this would mean space isn’t real, and if space isn’t real, then all math wouldn’t work either, and we wouldn’t know how or why to use math for what we see.

Combining space and time is the basic way we understand what we see, which means all our outside experiences and knowledge about objects depend on this. So, what math proves about space and time is also true for the things we see. Any arguments against this are just mistakes made by people who wrongly think objects we see don’t have to follow the ways we sense things. They forget that what we see are just appearances, not things as they are on their own. If we treated them like real things by themselves, then we couldn’t know anything new about them before seeing, and math like geometry wouldn’t even be possible.
