Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III only extend the empirical unity of these objects through the systematic a unity for which the idea gives us the schema; hence the idea holds not as a constitutive but merely as a regulative principle. b For that we posit a thing corresponding to the idea, a Something or a real being -by this fact it is not said that we would extend our cognition of things with transcendental concepts; this being is grounded only in the idea and not in itself, hence only in order to express the systematic unity which is to A675 I B 703 serve us as the standard for the empirical use of reason, without settling anything about what the ground of this unity is, or about the inner property of such a being on which, as cause, it rests.
 
 Thus the transcendental and single determinate concept of God that merely speculative reason gives us is in the most precise sense deistic, i.e., reason does not furnish us with the objective validity of such a con­ cept, but only with the idea of something on which all empirical reality grounds its highest and necessary unity, and which we cannot think ex­ cept in accordance with the analogy of an actual substance that is the cause of all things according to laws of reason; of course this is insofar as we undertake to think it as a particular object at all, and do not, con­ tent with the mere idea of the regulative principle of reason, rather prefer to set aside the completion of all conditions of thought as too ex­ travagantd for human understanding; but that is not consistent with the aim of a perfect systematic unity in our cognition, to which reason at least sets no limits.
 
 Hence now it happens that if I assume a divine being, I do not have the least concept either of the inner possibility of such a highest perA6761 B 704 fection or of the necessity of its existence; but then I can deal satisfac­ torily with all other questions concerning the contingent, and reason can obtain the most perfect satisfaction in regard to the greatest unity for which it is searching in its empirical use, but not in regard to the presupposition itself; this proves that it is reason's speculative interest and not its insight which justifies it in starting from a point lying so far beyond its sphere in order to consider its objects in one complete whole.
 
 Now here, regarding one and the same presupposition, a distinction reveals itself between ways of thinking which is rather subtle but never­ theless of great importance for transcendental philosophy. I can have a satisfactory reason for assuming something relatively (suppositio relativa) without being warranted in assuming it absolutely (suppositio absoluta).
 
 This distinction is pertinent when we have to do merely with a regulaa Objecte Princip b , Princip uberschwenglich d 608 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
