Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II this reason every transition in perception to something that follows in time is a determination of time through the generation of this percep­ tion and, since that is always and in all its parts a magnitude, the gener­ ation of a perception as a magnitude through all degrees, of which none is the smallest, from zero to its determinate degree. It is from this that the possibility of cognizing a priori a law concerning the form of alterB 256 ations becomes obvious. We anticipate only our own apprehension, the formal condition of which, since it is present in us prior to all given ap­ pearance, must surely be able to be cognized a priori.
 
 In the same way, then, that time is the a priori sensible condition of the possibility of a continuous progress of that which exists to that which fol­ lows it, the understanding, by means of the unity of apperception, is the A2I I a priori condition of the possibility of a continuous determination of all positions for the appearances in this time, through the series of causes and effects, the former of which inevitably draw the existence of the lat­ ter after them and thereby make the empirical cognition of temporal re­ lations (universally) valid for all time, thus objectively valid.
 
 C.
 
 Third Analogy.
 
 <Principle of simultaneity, according to the law of interaction, or community.>a [In the first edition:] All substances, insofar as they are simultaneous, stand in thoroughgoing community (i.e., interaction with one another).
 
 [In the second edition:] <All substances, insofar as they can be perceived in space as simultaneous, are in thoroughgoing interaction.>76 Proof b<Things are simultaneous if in empirical intuition the perception of B257 one can follow the perception of the other reciprocally (which in the temporal sequence of appearances, as has been shown in the case of the second principle, cannot happen). Thus I can direct my perception first to the moon and subsequently to the earth, or, conversely, first to the earth and then subsequently to the moon, and on this account, since the perceptions of these objects can follow each other reciprocally, I say that they exist simultaneously. Now simultaneity is the existence of the man­ ifold at the same time. But one cannot perceive time itself and thereby a In the first edition: "Principle of community." This paragraph added in the second edition.
 
 b 316 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
