Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III within itself, and this is the concept of a most real being. It has, you say, all reality, and you are justified in assuming such a being as possible (to which I have consented up to this point, even though a non-contradic­ tory concept falls far short of proving the possibility of its object).* Now existence is also comprehended under all reality: thus existence lies in A 5971 B 625 the concept of something possible. If this thing is cancelled, then the in­ ternal possibility of the thing is cancelled, which is contradictory.
 
 I answer: You have already committed a contradiction when you have brought the concept of its existence, under whatever disguised name, into the concept of a thing which you would think merely in terms of its possibility. If one allows you to do that, then you have won the illu­ sion of a victory, but in fact you have said nothing; for you have com­ mitted a mere tautology. I ask you: is the proposition, This or that thing (which I have conceded to you as possible, whatever it may be) exists -is this proposition, I say, an analytic or a synthetic proposition?
 
 If it is the former, then with existence you add nothing to your thought of the thing; but then either the thought that is in you must be the thing itself, or else you have presupposed an existence as belonging to possibility, and then inferred that existence on this pretext from its inner possibility, which is nothing but a miserable tautology. The word "reality," which sounds different from "existence" in the concept of the predicate, does not settle it. For if you call all positing (leaving inde­ terminate what you posit) "reality," then you have already posited the thing with all its predicates in the concept of the subject and assumed A598/B626 it to be actual, and you only repeat that in the predicate. If you con­ cede, on the contrary, as in all fairness you must, that every existential proposition is synthetic, then how would you assert that the predicate of existence may not be cancelled without contradiction? -since this privilege pertains only in the analytic propositions, as resting on its very character.
 
 I would have hoped to annihilate this over-subtle argumentation A 596/ B 624 The concept is always possible if it does not contradict itself. That is the log­ * ical mark of possibility, and thereby the object of the concept is distinguished from the nihil negativum! Yet it can nonetheless be an empty concept, if the objective reality of the synthesis through which the concept is generated has not been established in particular; but as was shown above,98 this always rests on principlesb of possible experience and not on the principles of analysis (on the principlec of contradiction). This is a warning not to infer immediately from the possibility of the concept (logical possibility) to the possibility of the thing (real possibility).
 
 a negative nothing h Principien , Satz 566 Section IV Impossibility of an ontological proof without any digressions through a precise determination of the concept of existence, if I had not found that the illusion consisting in the confu­ sion of a logical predicate with a real one (i.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
