On the transcendental ideal It is self-evident that with this aim -namely, solely that of represent­ ing the necessary thoroughgoing determination of things -reason does not presuppose the existence of a being conforming to the ideal, but A578/B606 only the idea of such a being, in order to derive from an unconditioned totality of thoroughgoing determination the conditioned totality, i.e., that of the limited. For reason the ideal is thus the original image (prototypon) of all things, which all together, as defective copies (ectypa), take from it the matter for their possibility, and yet although they approach more or less nearly to it, they always fall infinitely short of reaching it.
 
 Thus all the possibility of things (as regards the synthesis of the man­ ifold of their content) is regarded as derivative, and only that which in­ cludes all reality in it is regarded as original. For all negations (which are the sole predicates through which everything else is to be distin­ guished from the most real being) are mere limitations of a greater and finally of the highest reality; hence they presuppose it, and as regards their content they are merely derived from it. All manifoldness of things is only so many different ways of limiting the concept of the highest re­ ality, which is their common substratum, just as all figures are possible only as different ways oflimiting infinite space. Hence the object of rea­ son's ideal, which is to be found only in reason, is also called the origi­ nal being (ens originarium); because it has nothing above itself it is called the highest being (ens summum), and because everything else, as conditioned, stands under it, it is called the being of all beings (ens en- A 5791 B 607 tium). Yet all of this does not signify the objective relation of an actual object to other things, but only that of an idea to concepts, and as to the existence of a being of such preeminent excellence it leaves us in complete ignorance.
 
 Because one also cannot say that an original being consists in many derivative beings, since each of the latter presupposes the former and so cannot constitute it, the ideal of the original being must also be thought of as simple.
 
 The derivation of all other possibility from this original being, strictly speaking, also cannot be regarded as a limitation of its highest reality and as a division, as it were, of it; for then the original being would be regarded as a mere aggregate of derivative beings, which, according to the above, is impossible, even though we represented it in such a way at the beginning in our first crude outline.a Rather, the highest reality would ground the possibility of all things as a ground and not as a sum total; and the manifoldness of the former rests not on the limitation of the original being itself, but on its complete consequences; to which our whole sensibility, including all reality in appearance, would then belong, which cannot belong to the idea of a highest being as an ingredient.
 
 Schattenrifl a 557 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
