Part L The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> A22 In the transcendental aesthetic we will therefore first isolate sensibility by separating off everything that the understanding thinks through its concepts, so that nothing but empirical intuition remains.
 
 Second, we will then detach from the latter everything that belongs to sensation, so that nothing remains except pure intuition and the mere form of appearances, which is the only thing that sensibility can make available a priori. In this investigation it will be found that there are two pure forms of sensible intuition as principles a of a priori cognition, namely space and time, with the assessment of which we will now be concerned.
 
 B 37 The Transcendental Aesthetic First Section On space.
 
 <§ 2 Metaphysical exposition of this concept.> By means of outer sense (a property of our mind) we represent to ourselves objects as outside us, and all as in space. In space their shape, magnitude, and relation to one another is determined, or determinable.
 
 Inner sense, by means of which the mind intuits itself, or its inner state, gives, to be sure, no intuition of the soul itself, as an object;h yet it is A 2 3 still a determinate form, under which the intuition of its inner state is alone possible, so that everything that belongs to the inner determina­ tions is represented in relations of time. Time can no more be intuited externally than space can be intuited as something in us. Now what are space and time? Are they actual entities?C Are they only determinations or relations of things, yet ones that would pertain to them even if they were not intuited, or are they relations that only attach to the form of B 38 intuition alone, and thus to the subjective constitution of our mind, without which these predicates could not be ascribed to any thing at all?
 
 In order to instruct ourselves about this, we will <expound the concept of space> first.d <l understand by exposition (expositio) the distinct (even if not complete) representation of that which belongs to a con­ cept; but the exposition is metaphysical when it contains that which exhibits the concept as given priori.> a I) Space is not an empirical concept that has been drawn from outer " Principien b Object , wirkliche Wesen In the first edition: "first consider space." d 174 Section 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
