Impossibility of a cosmological proof satisfaction reason finds in regard to the completion of this series by the fact that one finally does away with every condition -without which, however, there can be no concept of any necessity -and then since one cannot comprehend anything further, one assumes this to be the com­ pletion of one's concept. 4) The confusion of the logical possibility of a concept of all reality united (without internal contradiction) with its transcendental possibility, which requires a principle a of the feasibility of such a synthesis, but which once again can apply only to the field of possible experiences, etc.
 
 The artifice of the cosmological proof is aimed merely at evading a proof of the existence of a necessary being a priori through mere con­ cepts, which would have to be carried out ontologically, for which, however, we feel ourselves entirely incapable. In this respect, on the ground of an actual existence (an experience in general), we infer, as best we can, some absolutely necessary condition of that existence.
 
 Then we have no necessity of explaining the possibility of this condition. For, if it has been proved that it exists, then the question of its A6II/B639 possibility is quite unnecessary. Now if we want to determine this necessary being more closely as to its constitution, then we do not seek what would suffice to comprehend from its concept the necessity of its existence; for if we could do that, then we would not have had the need of any empirical presupposition; no, we seek only the negative condition (conditio sine qua non) without which a being would not be absolutely necessary. Now that might very well get by in any other species of inference from a given consequence to its ground; but here, unfortunately, it so happens that the condition that one demands for absolute necessity can be encountered only in a single being, which therefore must contain everything in its concept that is required for absolute necessity, and thus makes possible an inference a priori to that; i.e., I have to be able to infer conversely that whatever thing this concept (of the highest reality) pertains to, that thing is absolutely necessary; and if I cannot so infer (as I must admit, if I want to avoid the ontological proof), then I have come to grief on my new path, and find myself once again right back where I started. The concept of the highest being satisfies all questions a priori that can be posed about the inner determinations of a thing, and it is therefore an ideal without equal, because the universal concept at the same time distinguishesb it A6I2/B640 as one individual among all possible things. But it does not deal at all satisfactorily with the question about its own existence, though that is really all that was at issue; and to those who assume the existence of a necessary being, and would only know which among all things had to a Principium b auszeichnet 573 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
