On Time <B> one removes the special condition of our sensibility from it, then the concept of time also disappears, and it does not adhere to the objects A38 themselves, rather merely to the subject that intuits them.
 
 The cause, however, on account of which this objection is so unani­ mously made, and indeed by those who nevertheless know of nothing convincing to object against the doctrine of the ideality of space,32 is B 55 this. They did not expect to be able to demonstrate the absolute reality of space apodictically, since they were confronted by idealism, according to which the reality of outer objects is not capable of any strict proof: on the contrary, the reality of the object of our inner sense (of myself and my state) is immediately clear through consciousness. The former could have been a mere illusion, but the latter, according to their opinion, is undeniably something real. But they did not consider that both, without their reality as representations being disputed, nev­ ertheless belong only to appearance, which always has two sides, one where the object a is considered in itself (without regard to the way in which it is to be intuited, the constitution of which however must for that very reason always remain problematic), the other where the form of the intuition of this object is considered, which must not be sought in the object in itself but in the subject to which it appears, but which nevertheless really and necessarily pertains to the representation of this object.
 
 Time and space are accordingly two sources of cognition, from which different synthetic cognitions can be drawn a priori, of which es- A 39 pecially pure mathematics in regard to the cognitions of space and its relations provides a splendid example. Both taken together are, B 56 namely, the pure forms of all sensible intuition, and thereby make possible synthetic a priori propositions. But these a priori sources of cognition determine their own boundaries by that very fact (that they are merely conditions of sensibility), namely that they apply to objects only so far as they are considered as appearances, but do not present things in themselves. Those alone are the field of their validity, beyond which no further objective use of them takes place. This reality of space and time, further, leaves the certainty of experiential cognition untouched: for we are just as certain of that whether these forms nec­ essarily adhere to the things in themselves or only to our intuition of these things. Those, however, who assert the absolute reality of space and time, whether they assume it to be subsisting or only inhering, must themselves come into conflict with the principlesb of experience.
 
 a Object Principien b 183 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
