Philosophy thus has no axioms and can never simply offer its a priori principles as such, but must content itself A 734/ B 762 with justifying their authority through a thorough deduction.
 
 3. On demonstrations.a Only an apodictic proof, insofar as it is in­ tuitive, can be called a demonstration. Experience may well teach us what is, but not that it could not be otherwise. Hence empirical grounds of proof cannot yield apodictic proof. From a priori concepts (in discur­ sive cognition), however, intuitive certainty, i.e., self-evidence,b can never arise, however apodictically certain the judgment may otherwise be. Thus only mathematics contains demonstrations, since it does not derive its cognition from concepts, but from their construction, i.e., from the intuition that can be given a priori corresponding to the con­ cepts. Even the way algebraists proceed with their equations, from which by means of reduction they bring forth the truth together with the proof, is not a geometrical construction, but it is still a characteris­ tic construction,12 in which one displays by signs in intuition the con­ cepts, especially of relationsc of quantities, and, without even regarding the heuristic, secures all inferences against mistakes by placing each of them before one's eyes. Philosophical cognition, on the contrary, must do without this advantage, since it must always consider the universal in abstracto (through concepts), while mathematics can assess the universal in concreto (in the individual intuition) and yet through pure a priori A 735 / B 763 intuition, where every false step becomes visible. Since they can only be conducted by means of mere words (the object in thought), I would therefore prefer to call the former acroamatic (discursive) proofs rather than demonstrations, which, as the expression already indicates, proceed through the intuition of the object.
 
 Now from all of this it follows that it is not suited to the nature of philosophy, especially in the field of pure reason, to strut about with a dogmatic gait and to decorate itself with the titles and ribbons of math­ ematics, to whose ranks philosophy does not belong, although it has every cause to hope for a sisterly union with it. These are idle preten­ sions that can never succeed, but that instead countermand its aim of revealing the deceptions of a reason that misjudges its own bound­ aries and of bringing the self-conceit of speculation back to modest but thorough self-knowledged by means of a sufficient illumination of our concepts. In its transcendental efforts, therefore, reason cannot look ahead so confidently, as if the path on which it has traveled leads quite directly to the goal, and it must not count so boldly on the premises a Demonstrationen Evidenz b Verhdlnisse [ d Selbsterkenntnis 641 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
