Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> merely subjective validity. One person combines the representation of a certain word with one thing, another with something else; and the unity of consciousness in that which is empirical is not, with regard to that which is given, necessarily and universally valid.
 
 § 19· The logical form of all judgments consists in the objective unity of the apperception of the concepts contained therein.38 I have never been able to satisfy myself with the explanation that the lo­ gicians give of a judgment in general: it is, they say, the representation of a relationa between two concepts. Without quarreling here about what is mistaken in this explanation, that in any case it fits only cate- B 141 gorical but not hypothetical and disjunctive judgments (which latter two do not contain a relationb of concepts but of judgments themselves) (though from this error in logic many troublesome consequences have arisen),*,39 I remark only that it is not here determined wherein this relatione consists.
 
 If, however, I investigate more closely the relationd of given cogni­ tions in every judgment, and distinguish that relation, as something be­ longing to the understanding, from the relatione in accordance with laws of the reproductive imagination (which has only subjective valid­ ity), then I find that a judgment is nothing other than the way to bring given cognitions to the objective unity of apperception.40 That is the aim of the copula! is in them: to distinguish the objective unity of given B 142 representations from the subjective. For this word designates the relation of the representations to the original apperception and its necessary unity, even if the judgment itself is empirical, hence contingent, * The widespread doctrine of the four syllogistic figures concerns only the cat- B 141 egorical inferences, and, although it is nothing more than an art for surreptitiously producing the illusion of more kinds of inference than that in the first figure by hiding immediate inferences (consequentiae immediatiae) among the premises of a pure syllogism, still it would not have achieved any special success by this alone if it had not succeeded in focusing attention exclusively on categorical judgments as those to which all others have to be related, which according to § 9, however, is false.
 
 a Verhdltnisses Verhdltnis b , Verhdltnis d Here Kant uses Beziehung when he might have used Verhdltnis.
 
 , Verhdltnisse f Verhdltnisw;jrtchen 251 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
