On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> Now we have already declared ourselves for this transcendental ide­ alism from the outset. Thus our doctrinea removes all reservations about assuming the existence of matter based on the testimony of our mere self-consciousness, and it declares this to be proved in the same way as the existence of myself as a thinking being. For I am indeed con­ scious to myself of my representations; thus these exist, and I myself, who has these representations. But now external objects (bodies) are merely appearances, hence also nothing other than a species of my rep­ resentations, whose objects are something only through these repre­ sentations, but are nothing separated from them. Thus external things exist as well as my self, and indeed both exist on the immediate testi- A371 mony of my self-consciousness, only with this difference: the representation of my Self, as the thinking subject, is related merely to inner sense, but the representations that designate extended beings are also related to outer sense. I am no more necessitated to draw inferences in respect of the reality of external objects than I am in regard to the reality of the objects of my inner sense (my thoughts), for in both cases they are nothing but representations, the immediate perception (consciousness) of which is at the same time a sufficient proof of their reality.
 
 Thus the transcendental idealist is an empirical realist, and grants to matter, as appearance, a reality which need not be inferred, but is im­ mediately perceived. In contrast, transcendental realism necessarily falls into embarrassment, and finds itself required to give way to empirical idealism, because it regards the objects of outer sense as something different from the senses themselves and regards mere appearances as self­ sufficient beings that are found external to us; for here, even with our best consciousness of our representation of these things, it is obviously far from certain that if the representation exists, then the object corre­ sponding to it would also exist; but in our system, on the contrary, these external things -namely, matter in all its forms and alterations -are nothing but mere representations, i.e., representations in us, of whose A 3 72 reality we are immediately conscious.
 
 Now since as far as I know all those psychologists who cling to em­ pirical idealism are transcendental realists, they have obviously pro­ ceeded very consistently in conceding great importance to empirical idealism as one of the problems from which human reason knows how to extricate itself only with difficulty. For in fact if one regards outer ap­ pearances as representations that are effected in us by their objects, as things in themselves found outside us, then it is hard to see how their ex­ istence could be cognized in any way other than by an inference from ef­ fect to cause, in which case it must always remain doubtful whether the cause is in us or outside us. Now one can indeed admit that something a Lehrbegriff 427 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
