Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III or else through a concept which it borrows from nature (the nature of our soul) as the highest intelligence, and would have to be called nat­ ural theology. Someone who admits only a transcendental theology would be called a deist; but if he also accepts a natural theology, he a would be called a theist. The former concedes that we can in any case cognize the existence of an original being through mere reason, but our concept of it is merely transcendental-namely, only that of a being having all reality, but it cannot be determined more closely. The second asserts that reason is in a position to determine the object more closely by analogy with nature -namely as a being containing the original ground of all other things within itself through understanding and free­ dom. The deist represents this being merely as a cause of the world A63z1B660 (whether through the necessity of its nature or through freedom re­ mains undecided), the theist as an author of the world.
 
 Transcendental theology either thinks that the existence of an origi­ nal being is to be derived from an experience in general (without more closely determining anything about the world to which this experi­ ence belongs), and is called cosmotheology; or it believes that it can cognize that existence through mere concepts, without the aid of even the least experience, and is called ontotheology.
 
 Natural theology infers the properties and the existence of an au­ thor of the world from the constitution, the order and unity, that are found in this world, in which two kinds of causality and its rules have to be assumed, namely nature and freedom. Hence it ascends from this world to the highest intelligence, either as the principleb of all natural or of all moral order and perfection. In the first case it is called physico-theology, in the latter moral theology.* Since one is accustomed to understanding by the concept of God not some blindly working eternal nature as the root of things, but rather a A 6 33/B 66 I highest being which is supposed to be the author of things through un­ derstanding and freedom -and since this concept alone interests us -one could, strictly speaking, refuse all belief in God to the deist, and leave him solely with the assertion of an original being or a highest cause. However, since no one should be charged with wanting to deny something just because he does not have the confidence to assert it, it A632 / B 660 * Not theological morals; for that contains moral laws that presuppose the ex­ istence of a highest governor of the world, whereas moral theology, on the contrary, is a conviction of the existence of a highest being which grounds it­ self on morallaws.c a annimmt Princip b , In the first edition: " ...w hich is grounded on moral laws." 584 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
