Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III A620/B648 a regulative principlea is transformed into a constitutive one; this sub­ stitution reveals itself by the fact that if I now consider this supreme being, which was absolutely (unconditionally) necessary respective to the world, as a thing for itself, no concept is susceptible of this neces­ sity; and thus it must have been encountered in my reason only as a for­ mal condition of thought, and not as a material and hypostatic condi­ tion of existence.
 
 Chapter Three Section Six On the impossibility of a physico-theological proofI07 If, then, neither the concept of things in general nor the experience of any existence in general can achieve what is required, then one means is still left: to see whether a determinate experience, that of the things in the present world, their constitution and order, yields a ground of proof that could help us to acquire a certain conviction of the existence of a highest being. Such a proof we would call the physico-theologi­ cal proof. 108 If this too should be impossible, then no satisfactory proof from speculative reason for the existence of a being that corresponds to our transcendental ideas is possible at all.
 
 A62I/B649 From all the above remarks one will soon see that to this inquiry a quite easy, concise, and conclusive reply can be expected. For how can any experience be given that is supposed to be adequate to an idea? For what is special about an idea is just that no experience can ever be con­ gruent to it. The transcendental idea of a necessary all-sufficient origi­ nal being is so overwhelmingly great, so sublimely high above every­ thing empirical, which is at all times conditioned, that partly one can never even procure enough material in experience to fill such a concept, and partly if one searches for the unconditioned among conditioned things, then one will seek forever and always in vain, since no law of any empirical synthesis will ever give an example of such a thing, or even the least guidance in looking for it.
 
 If the highest being were to stand in the chain of these conditions, then it would be a member of their series, and like the lower members, of which this is presupposed, a further investigation for a still higher ground would be required for it. If, on the contrary, one would separate it from this chain, and, as a merely intelligible being, not include it within the series of natural causes, then what bridge can reason build so as to reach it? For all laws of transition from effects to causes, indeed, all synthesis and extension of our cognition in general, are directedb to a Princip b gestellt 578 Section VI.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
