1684), but developed most fully and originally by Nicolas Malebranche (1638-1715) (On the Search for Truth [(1675)], tr. T. M. Lennon and P. J. Olscamp [Columbus: Ohio University Press, 1980] 6.2.3, pp. 446-52). It holds that bodies and minds have no natural power to influence one another, but each influences the other through the mediation of God's causality. Occasionalism was re­ jected by Wolff (Psychologia rationalis §§ 589-611) and Baumgarten (Meta­ physica § 767).
 
 37 "Pillars of Hercules" was the name commonly given in antiquity to the headlands, Gibraltar to the north and Jebel Musa to the south, at the east­ ern end of the Strait of Gibralter, which opens on the Atlantic Ocean.
 
 38 Reflections bearing on the revision of the "Paralogisms" for the second edition include R 5650 (1785-88, 18:298-3°2) and R 581 I (1783-84, 18:360).
 
 39 See B 288-94 and A235-60/B294-315.
 
 40 Moses Mendelssohn, Phiidon oder iiber die Unsterblichkeit der Seele (Berlin: Fr. Nicolai, 1767). Mendelssohn, Gesammelte Schriften. JubiHiumsausgabe.
 
 (Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 1932) 3:5-129. In the first edition of this work, Mendelssohn's reasoning in favor of immortality of the soul is presented in the following representative passage: "If we say," Socrates went on, "that the soul dies, then we must suppose one of the following: Either all its powers and faculties, its actions and passions, suddenly cease, they vanish suddenly in an instant; or the soul, like the body, suffers gradual trans­ formations, countless changes of dress, proceeding in a constant series, and in this series there is an epoch where it is no longer a human soul, but has become some­ thing other than that, becoming dust, air, plant or a part of another animal. Is there a third case, another way in which the soul can die, besides suddenly or gradually?" "No," replied Cebes. "This division completely exhausts the possibilities." "Good," said Socrates, "then those who still doubt whether the soul is mortal may choose, if they care to, between its suddenly vanishing or its ceasing bit by bit to be what it was ...
 
 "Perhaps the soul perishes suddenly, vanishes in an instant. In itself this kind of death is possible. But can it be produced by nature?
 
 "Not at all, if what we have admitted is true, that nature can produce no annihila­ tion. And have we rightly admitted this?" asked Socrates. "Between being and non­ being there is a terrible gap, which can never be leapt over by nature, which works gradually ...N o, Cebes, let us sooner fear that the sun will change into ice, than fear a fundamentally evil action, annihilation through a miracle, from the Self-sufficient Good ...
 
 "But now we have seen that there is no determinate moment when one can say, 'The animal dies now.' The dissolution of the animal machine has long since begun before its effects become visible; for there never fail to be animal movements op­ posing the preservation of the whole; only they decrease bit by bit until finally the movements of the parts no longer harmonize in a single final end, but each of them has taken on its particular final end, and then the machine has dissolved ...
 
 "Thus if the death of the body is also to be the death of the soul, then there must be no moment in which one can say 'Now the soul vanishes,' but the soul must de­ crease in force and effectiveness bit by bit, just as the movements in the parts of the machine cease to harmonize to a single final end ...
 
 740 Notes to pages 449-454 "Thus we only have to investigate whether the inner powers of the soul could not perish gradually, just as the parts of a machine separate .
 

 
(Simplified)
 
