Now this is not possible in any way but by determining my object in accordance with the conditions of either empirical or pure intuition. The former would yield only an empirical proposition (through measurement of its angles), which would contain no universality, let alone necessity, and propositions of this sort are not under discussion here. The second procedure, however, is that of mathematical and here indeed of geometrical construction, by means of which I put together in a pure intuition, just as in an empirical one, the manifold that belongs to the schema of a triangle in general and thus to its concept, through which general synthetic propositions must be constructed.a In vain, therefore, would I reflect on the triangle philosophically, i.e., discursively, without thereby getting any further than the mere defini- A719/B747 tion with which, however, I had to begin. There is, to be sure, a transcendental synthesis from concepts alone, with which in turn only the philosopher can succeed, but which never concerns more than a thing in general, with regard to the conditions under which its perception could belong to possible experience. But in mathematical problems the question is not about this nor about existenceb as such at all, but about the properties of the objects in themselves, solely insofar as these are combined with the concept of them.
 
 In these examples we have only attempted to make distinct what a great difference there is between the discursive use of reason in accor­ dance with concepts and its intuitive use through the construction of concepts. Now the question naturally arises, what is the cause that makes such a twofold use of reason necessary, and by means of which conditions can one knowc whether only the first or also the second takes place?
 
 All of our cognition is in the end related to possible intuitions: for through these alone is an object given. Now an priori concept (a non­ a empirical concept) either already contains a pure intuition in itself, in which case it can be constructed; or else it contains nothing but the syn­ thesis of possible intuitions, which are not given priori, in which case a one can well judge synthetically and priori by its means, but only dis- A 720/ B 748 a cursively, in accordance with concepts, andd never intuitively through the construction of the concept.
 
 Now of all intuition none is given priori except the mere form of apa a The word construiert is missing in the first edition.
 
 Existenz b , erkennen d und in the second edition replaces aber in the first.
 
 633 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
