In those cases where we do accept emendations, we have not cited authorities earlier than Benno Erdmann's edition of the Critique in the Akademie edition (19II), cited as "Erdmann." This means that we have not reproduced the ascriptions of emendations going back to nineteenth-century edi­ tors that decorate the pages of the edition by Raymund Schmidt (1926, 1930), which was the basis for Norman Kemp Smith's English transla­ tion (1929, 1933). Our decision also means that where Kant's location of the adverbial phrase "a priori," which he always treats as a Latin bor­ rowing rather than a naturalized latinate German term, is ambiguous between an adverbial modification of a verb and an adjectival modifica­ tion of a noun, we have tried to leave it ambiguous, although we could not always do so.
 
 The biggest issue that we faced, however, was how to present the variations between the first (1781 or "A") and second (1787 or "B") edi­ tions of the Critique. Here too our underlying intention eventually dic­ tated a different approach from that adopted by either Erdmann or Schmidt and Kemp Smith. Erdmann treated A and B as two separate works, publishing in Volume 3 of the Akademie edition B in its entirety, followed by a separate edition in Volume 4 of A up through the point after which Kant made no further revisions (the "Paralogisms of Pure Reason"). This approach makes it difficult for the reader to compare particular passages in A and B. Schmidt and Kemp Smith also regarded B as the definitive text, but presented a single text that always follows the text of B on the main part of the page and relegates modified or deleted passages from A to their notes, except where Kant rewrote chapters or sections of the book in their entirety, in which case the ver­ sion from A was presented in the text followed by the version from B.
 
 This often makes it difficult for the reader to follow the text, and makes it particularly difficult for the reader to get a clear sense of how the first edition read. In order to avoid this problem, we have presented both versions of those sections of the book that Kant rewrote extensively as well as completely: thus, we present two versions of the introduction, the "Transcendental Aesthetic," and the chapter on the "Distinction be­ tween Phenomena and Noumena" as well as two versions of the pref­ ace, "Transcendental Deduction," and "Paralogisms." But in order to make comparison between the two editions easier than Erdmann made it, we have also provided the pagination of both editions for all passages that Kant preserved intact or largely intact from the first edition, even in those chapters that he rewrote extensively although not completely for the second, and have noted the changes that Kant made in our foot­ notes. Where Kant made only minor changes in a section, we have fol­ lowed the practice of Schmidt and Kemp Smith by preferring B in our 74 Introduction main text and noting divergences in A in our footnotes (new material inserted in B is enclosed in angled brackets).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
