On the paralogisms of pure reason <A> not that it is a standing and abiding intuition, in which thoughts (as variable) would change.
 
 From this it follows that the first syllogism of transcendental psychology imposes on us an only allegedly new insight when it passes off the constant logical subject of thinking as the cognition of a real subject of inherence, with which we do not and cannot have the least acquaintance, because consciousness is the one single thing that makes all representations into thoughts, and in which, therefore, as in the transcendental subject, our perceptions must be encountered; and apart from this logical significance of the I, we have no acquaintance with the subject in itself that grOlmds this I as a substratum, just as it grounds all thoughts.
 
 Meanwhile, one can quite well allow the proposition The soul is substance to be valid, if only one admits that this concept of ours leads no further, that it cannot teach us any of the usual conclusions of the ratio- A 3 5 I nalistic doctrine of the soul, such as, e.g., the everlasting duration of the soul through all alterations, even the human being's death, thus that it signifies a substance only in the idea but not in reality.
 
 Second paralogism of simplicity.
 
 That thing whose action can never be regarded as the concurrence of many acting things, is simple.
 
 Now the soul, or the thinking I, is such a thing.
 
 Thus etc.24 Criticism of the second paralogism of transcendental psychology.
 
 This is the Achilles of all the dialectical inferences of the pure doctrine of the soul, nothing like a mere sophistical play that a dogmatist devised in order to give his assertions a fleeting plausibility,a but an inference that seemsb to withstand even the sharpest testing and the greatest scru­ ples of inquiry. Here it is.
 
 Every composite substance is an aggregate of many, and the action of a composite, or of that which inheres in it as such a composite, is an aggregate of many actions or accidents, which is distributed among the multitudeC of substances. Now of course an effect that arises from the concurrence of many acting substances is possible if this effect is merely A 3 5 2 external (as, e.g., the movement of a body is the united movement of all a Schein scheint b , Menge 417 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
