Systematic representation of all synthetic principles The question therefore arises, how a thing passes from one state a = into another one b. Between two instants there is always a time, and = between two states in those instances there is always a difference that has a magnitude (for all parts of appearances are always in turn magni­ tudes). Thus every transition from one state into another happens in a time that is contained between two instants, of which the former deter­ mines the state from which the thing proceeds and the second the state at which it arrives. Both are therefore boundaries of the time of an al­ teration, consequently of the intermediate state between two states, and as such they belong to the whole alteration. Now every alteration has a cause, which manifests its causality in the entire time during which the alteration proceeds. Thus this cause does not produce its alteration suddenly (all at once or in an instant), but rather in a time, so that as the B 254 time increases from the initial instant a to its completion in b, the magnitude of the reality (b-a) is also generated through all the smaller degrees that are contained between the first and the last. All alteration is therefore possible only through a continuous action of causality, which, insofar as it is uniform, is called a moment. The alteration does not consist of these moments, but it is generated through them as their effect. A209 That is, now, the law of the continuity of all alteration, the ground of which is this: That neither time nor appearance in time consists of small­ est parts, and that nevertheless in its alteration the state of thing passes through all these parts, as elements, to its second state. No difference of the real in appearance is the smallest, just as no difference in the magnitude of times is, and thus the new state of reality grows out of the first, in which it did not exist, through all the infinite degrees of reality, the differences between which are all smaller than that between a and a.
 
 What utility this proposition may have in research into nature does not concern us here. But how such a proposition, which seems to am­ plify our cognition of nature so much, is possible completely a priori, very much requires our scrutiny, even though it is obvious that it is real and correct, and one might therefore believe oneself to be relieved of B 255 the question how it is possible. For there are so many unfounded pre­ sumptions of the amplification of our cognition through pure reason that it must be adopted as a general principle to be distrustful of them all and not to believe and accept even the clearest dogmatic proof of this sort of proposition without documents that could provide a well- A2IO grounded deduction.
 
 All growth of empirical cognitions and every advance in perception is nothing but an amplification of the determination of inner sense, i.e., a progress in time, whatever the objects may be, either appearances or pure intuitions. This progress in time determines everything, and is not itself determined by anything further: i.e., its parts are only in time, and given through the synthesis of it, but they are not given before it. For 315 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
