Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. I <B> In this way, then, a cognition going beyond the bounds of possible ex­ perience yet belonging to the highest interests of humanity disappears, B424 as far as speculative philosophy is concerned, in disappointed expecta­ tion; nevertheless the strictness of critique, by proving the impossibil­ ity of settling anything dogmatically about an object of experience beyond the bounds of experience, performs a not unimportant service for reason regarding this interest, in securing it likewise against all possible assertions of the contrary; this cannot be done otherwise than by proving one's proposition apodictically, or, if that does not succeed, then by seeking the sources of this incapacity, which, if they lie in the necessary limits of our reason, must then subject every opponent to exactly the same law of renunciation for all claims to dogmatic assertions.
 
 Nevertheless, not the least bit is lost through this regarding the war­ rant, or indeed the necessity, for the assumption of a future life in ac­ cordance with principles of the practical use of reason, which is bound up with its speculative use; for in any case the merely speculative proof has never been able to have an influence on common human reason. It so turns on a hairsplitting point that even the schools can retain it only as long as they can keep it standing there spinning around ceaselessly like a top, and thus even in their own eyes it provides no persisting foundation on which anything could be built. Here all the proofs that B425 the world can use preserve their undiminished worth, and rather gain in clarity and unaffected conviction through the removal of those dog­ matic pretensions, since they place reason in its proper territory, namely the order of ends that is yet at the same time an order of nature; but then since reason exists at the same time as a practical faculty in itself, without being limited to the conditions of the latter order, it is justified in extending the former order, and with it our whole existence, beyond the bounds of experience and life. By analogy with the nature of liv­ ing beings in this world, regarding which reason must assume as a nec­ essary principle that no organ, no faculty, nothing superfluous, or disproportionate to its use, hence nothing purposeless is to be met with, but rather that everything is to be judged as precisely suitable to its functiona in life, the human being, who alone can contain within him­ self the ultimate final en db of all this, would have to be the only crea­ ture excepted from it. For his natural predispositions, not only his talents and the drives to make use of them, but chiefly the moral law in Bestimmung a b letzten Endzweck 454 On the paralogisms of pure reason <B> him, go so far beyond all the utility and advantage that he could draw from them in this life that the latter teaches him to esteem above all else the mere consciousness of a disposition to rectitude, even in the absence of any advantage, even of the phantom of posthumous fame, and he B426 feels himself called inwardly, through his conduct in this world, and the sacrifice of many advantages, to make himself a suitable citizen of a better one, which he has in its idea.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
