Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> stracts from the subjective conditions of sensible intuition, and cannot be counted as either subsisting or inhering in the objects in themselves (without their relation to our intuition). Yet this ideality is to be comB 53 pared with the subreptions of sensation just as little as that of space is, because in that case one presupposes that the appearance itself, in which these predicates inhere, has objective reality, which is here entirely ab­ sent except insofar as it is merely empirical, i.e., the object itself is re­ garded merely as appearance: concerning which the above remark in the previous sections is to be consulted.a <§ 7> Elucidation.
 
 Against this theory, which concedes empirical reality to time but dis­ putes its absolute and transcendental reality, insightful men have so unanimously proposed one objection that I conclude that it must natu­ rally occur to every reader who is not accustomed to these considera­ tionsY It goes thus: Alterations are real (this is proved by the change of A37 our own representations, even if one would deny all outer appearances together with their alterations). Now alterations are possible only in time, therefore time is something real. There is no difficulty in answer­ ing. I admit the entire argument. Time is certainly something real, namely the real form of inner intuition. It therefore has subjective real­ ity in regard to inner experience, i.e., I really have the representation of B 54 time and <my>b determinations in it. It is therefore to be regarded re­ ally not as object" but as the way of representing myself as object.d But if I or another being could intuit myself without this condition of sen­ sibility, then these very determinations, which we now represent to our­ selves as alterations, would yield us a cognition in which the repre­ sentation of time and thus also of alteration would not occur at all. Its empirical reality therefore remains as a condition of all our experiences.
 
 Only absolute reality cannot be granted to it according to what has been adduced above. It is nothing except the form of our inner intuition.* If * I can, to be sure, say: my representations succeed one another; but that only means that we are conscious of them as in a temporal sequence, i.e., accord­ ing to the form of inner sense. Time is not on that account something in it­ self, nor any determination objectively adhering to things.
 
 a This refers to A 28-30/B44-5 in § 3.
 
 In the first edition: "of my." b , Object Object d 182 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
