Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II <A> that the thing is to be represented as a subject in itself without in turn being the predicate of another subject, nothing about its persistence follows, and the attribute of simplicity certainly cannot be added to this persistence; hence one is not in the least instructed about what the soul can encounter in the alterations in the world. If one would tell us that it is a simple part of matter, then from what experience teaches us about this, we could derive its persistence and, together with its simple nature, its immortality. But the concept of the 1, in the psychological principle ("1 think"), tells us not one word about this.
 
 But that the being that thinks in us supposes that it cognizes itself through pure categories, and indeed through those under each heading that express absolute unity, follows from this: Apperception is itself the ground of the possibility of the categories, which for their part represent nothing other than the synthesis of the manifold of intuition, insofar as that manifold has unity in apperception. Self-consciousness in general is therefore the representation of that which is the condition of all unity, and yet is itself unconditioned. Hence of the thinking 1 (the soul), which A402 [thus represents] itself as substance, simple, numerically identical in all time, and the correlate of all existence from which all other existence must be inferred, one can say not so much that is cognizes itself through the categories, but that it cognizes the categories, and through them all objects, in the absolute unity of apperception, and hence cog­ nizes them through itself. Now it is indeed very illuminating that 1 can­ not cognize as an objecta itself that which 1 must presuppose in order to cognize an objectb at all; and that the determining Self (the thinking) is different from the determinable Self (the thinking subject) as cognition is different from its object. Nevertheless, nothing is more natural and se­ ductive than the illusion of taking the unity in the synthesis of thoughts for a perceived unity in the subject of these thoughts. One could call it the subreption of hypostatized consciousness (apperceptionis substantiate).c If one wants to give a logical title to the paralogism in the dialectical syllogisms of the rational doctrine of the soul, insofar as they have cor­ rect premises, then it can count as sophisma figurae diction is, d in which the major premise makes a merely transcendental use of the category, in regard to its condition, but in which the minor premise and the con­ clusion, in respect of the soul that is subsumed under this condition, A403 make an empirical use of the same category. Thus e.g., the concept of substance in the paralogism of simplicity is a pure intellectual concept, which in the absence of conditions of sensible intuition is merely of Object a b Object , "of substantized apperception." Kant's text reads apperceptiones; we follow Erdmann in correcting his Latin grammar.
 
 d "sophistry of a figure of speech," or fallacy of equivocation. See Logic § 90, 9:135.
 
 442 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
