Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III even to where no possible experience and hence no means suffices to se­ cure objective reality for any of the concepts we have thought out.
 
 However the understanding may have obtained these concepts, the ex­ istence of their object cannot be found in them analytically, just because the cognition of the existence of the object consists precisely in posit­ a ing this existence in itself outside the thought. But it is entirely im­ possible to go from a concept by itself out beyond it and, without following its empirical connection (which, however, will at every time provide only appearances), to attain to the discovery of new objects and transcendent b beings.
 
 But even though reason in its merely speculative use is far from ade­ quate for such a great aim as this -namely, attaining to the existence of a supreme being -it still has in them a very great utility, that of COfA640/ B 668 recting the cognition of this being by making it agree with itself and with every intelligible aim, and by purifYing it of everything that might be incompatible with the concept of an original being, and of all ad­ mixture of empirical limitations.
 
 Accordingly, despite all of its inadequacies, transcendental theology retains an important negative use, and is a constant censor of our reason when it has to do merely with pure ideas, which for this very reason admit of no standard but the transcendental one. For if in some other, perhaps practical relation, the presupposition of a highest and all-suffi­ cient being, as supreme intelligence, were to assert its validity without any objection, then it would be of the greatest importance to determine this concept precisely on its transcendental side, as the concept of a nec­ essary and most real being, to get rid of what is incompatible with the highest reality, what belongs to mere appearance (anthropomorphism, broadly understood), and at the same time to get out of the way all op­ posed assertions, whether they be atheistic, deistic or anthropomor­ phic; all this is very easy to do in such a critical treatment, since the same grounds for considering human reason incapable of asserting the exisA641 / B 669 tence of such a being, when laid before our eyes, also suffice to prove the unsuitabilityc of all counter-assertions. For where, by pure speculation of reason, will anyone acquire the insight that there is no highest being as the original ground of everything? Or that none of the properties apply to it that we represent, in accordance with their consequences, as ana­ logical with the dynamic realities of a thinking being? Or that, in the lat­ ter case, they have to be subject to all the limitations inevitably imposed by sensibility on the intelligences with which experience acquaints us?d a Object b iiberschwenglicher , Untauglichkeit d Kant's sentence encompasses all three disjuncts and ends with period.
 
 a 588 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
