Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II would be determined solely in apprehension, i.e., merely subjectively, but it would not thereby be objectively determined which of the per­ ceptions must really be the preceding one and which the succeeding one. In this way we would have only a play of representations that would not be related to any objecta at all, i.e., by means of our percep­ tion no appearance would be distinguished from any other as far as the temporal relation is concerned, since the succession in the apprehend­ ing is always the same, and there is therefore nothing in the appearance B 240 that determines it so that a certain sequence is thereby made necessary as objective. I would therefore not say that in appearance two states folAI9 5 low one another, but rather only that one apprehension follows the other, which is something merely subjective, and determines no ob­ ject,b and thus cannot count as the cognition of any object (not even in the appearance).
 
 If, therefore, we experience that something happens, then we always presuppose that something else precedes it, which it follows in accor­ dance with a rule. For without this I would not say of the object" that it follows, since the mere sequence in my apprehension, if it is not, by means of a rule, determined in relation to something preceding, does not justify any sequence in the object.d Therefore I always make my subjective synthesis (of apprehension) objective with respect to a rule in accordance with which the appearances in their sequence, i.e., as they occur, are determined through the preceding state, and only under this presupposition alone is the experience of something that happens even possible.
 
 To be sure, it seems as if this contradicts everything that has always been said about the course of the use of our understanding, according to which it is only through the perception and comparison of sequences of many occurrences on preceding appearances that we are led to disB 241 cover a rule, in accordance with which certain occurrences always fol­ low certain appearances, and are thereby first prompted to form the AI96 concept of cause. On such a footing this concept would be merely em­ pirical, and the rule that it supplies, that everything that happens has a cause, would be just as contingent as the experience itself: its universal­ ity and necessity would then be merely feigned, and would have no true universal validity, since they would not be grounded a priori but only on induction. But the case is the same here as with other pure a priori rep­ resentations (e.g., space and time) that we can extract as clear concepts from experience only because we have put them into experience, and Object a Object b , Object Objecte d 308 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
