On the logical function in judgments others, and to place it in one sphere, on the contrary, means to remove it from the others. In a disjunctive judgment there is therefore a certain community of cognitions, consisting in the fact that they mutually ex足 clude each other, yet thereby determine the true cognition in its en足 tirety, since taken together they constitute the entire content of a particular given cognition.8 And this is also all that I find it necessary to remark upon for the sake of what follows." 4. The modality of judgments is a quite special function of them, which is distinctive in that it contributes nothing to the content of the B roo judgment (for besides quantity, quality, and relationb there is nothing more that constitutes the content of a judgment), but rather concerns only the value of the copula in relation to thinking in genera1.9 Problematic judgments are those in which one regards the assertion 6fdenial as merely possible (arbitrary). Assertoric judgments are those in which it is considered actual (true). Apodictic judgments are those in A 75 which it is seen as necessary. * Thus the two judgments whose relation constitutes the hypothetical judgment (antecedens and consequens), as well as those in whose reciprocal relatione the disjunctive judgment consists (the members of the division), are all merely problematic. In the above example the proposition "There is a perfect justice" is not said assertorically, but is only thought of as an arbitrary judgment that it is possible that someone might assume, and only the implication is assertoric. Thus such judgments can be obviously false and yet, if taken problematically, conditions of the cognition of truth. Thus the judgment "The world exists through blind chance" is of only problematic significance in the disjunctive judgment, that is, someone might momentarily assume this BIOI proposition, and yet it serves (like the designation of the false path among the number of all of those one can take) to find the true one. The problematic proposition is therefore that which only expresses logical possibility (which is not objective), i.e., a free choice to allow such a proposition to count as valid, a merely arbitrary assumption of it in the understanding. The assertoric proposition speaks of logical actuality or truth, as say in a hypothetical syllogism the antecedent in the major A 76 premise is problematic, but that in the minor premise assertoric, and in* It is just as if in the first case thought were a function of the understanding, in the second of the power of judgment, and in the third of reason. This is a remark the elucidation of which can be expected only in the sequel.
 
 n The following note occurs in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Judgments and proposi足 tions are different. That the latter are verbis expressa [explicit words], since they are as足 sertoric" (E XXXVIII, p. 23; 23:25).
 
 Verhdltnis b , Wechselwirkung 209 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
