Pt. II. Div. II. Book I the concept of a body does not occur, but that contains the condition of this concept) that "Everything composite is alterable," and go from this to a closer proposition standing under the condition of the former: "Bodies are composite"; and then from this finally to a third proposi­ tion, conjoining the more distant cognition ("alterable") with the one A331 lying before us: "Consequently, bodies are alterable"; then I arrive at a cognition (a conclusion) through a series of conditions (premises). Now every series whose exponent (whether that of the categorical or the hy­ pothetical judgment) is given may be continued; hence the very same action of reason leads to a ratiocinatio prosyllogistica, a which is a series of inferences, that can be continued to an indeterminate extent either on B 388 the side of the conditions (per prosyllogismos)b or on the side of the con­ ditioned (per episyllogismos).c But we soon come to be aware that the chain or series of prosyllo­ gisms, i.e., of inferred cognitions on the side of the grounds, or of the conditions of a given cognition -in other words, the ascending series of syllogisms -has to be related to the faculty of reason differently from the descending series, i.e., the progression of reason on the side of that which is conditioned through episyllogisms. For since in the first case the cognition (the conclusio) is given only as conditioned, we cannot reach it by means of reason except at least on the presupposition that all members of the series are given on the side of the conditions (totality in the series of premises), because only under this presupposition is the judgment before us possible a priori; on the contrary, on the side of that which is conditioned or of the consequences, there is thought only a seA332 ries that becomes, and that is not already presupposed or given as a whole, and so only a potential progression. Hence if a cognition is re­ garded as conditioned, reason is necessitated to regard the series of con­ ditions in an ascending line as completed and given in their totality. But if the very same cognition is at the same time regarded as a condition of B 389 other cognitions that constitute a series of consequences in a descend­ ing line, then reason can be entirely indifferent about how far this pro­ gression stretches a parte posteriori, and whether a totality of these conditions is even possible at all; for it does not need a series of the same sort for the conclusion that lies before us, since this conclusion is already sufficiently determined and secured through its grounds a parte priori. Now it mayor may not be that on the side of the conditions, the series of premises has a first [member] as the supreme condition, and hence that it is without bound a parte priori; nevertheless it must still a "Prosyllogistic reasoning," that is, reasoning through a series of syllogisms to arrive at a desired conclusion.
 
 b by prosyllogisms , by episyllogisms 404 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
