On the pure concepts of the understanding Now this is the listing of all original pure concepts of synthesisa that the understanding contains in itself a priori, and on account of which it is only a pure understanding; for by these concepts alone can it understand something in the manifold of intuition, i.e., think an objectb for it. This division is systematically generated from a common principle," namely the faculty for judging (which is the same as the faculty for A8I thinking), and has not arisen rhapsodically from a haphazard search for pure concepts, of the completeness of which one could never be certain, B 107 since one would only infer it through induction, without reflecting that in this way one would never see why just these and not other concepts should inhabit the pure understanding. ruistotle's search for these fun­ damental concepts was an effort worthy of an acute man. But since he had no principle,d he rounded them up as he stumbled on them, and first got up a list of ten of them, which he called categories (predicaments). Subsequently he believed that he had found five more of them, which he added under the name of post-predicaments. But his table still had holes. Further, it also included several modi of pure sensibility (quando, ubi, situs, as well as prius, simul,)e as well as an empirical one (motus)/ which do not belong in this ancestral registryg of the under­ standing; derivative concepts were also included among the primary ones (actio, passio),h and several of the latter were entirely missing.
 
 For the sake of the primary concepts it is therefore still necessary to remark that the categories, as the true ancestral conceptsi of pure un­ derstanding, also have their equally pure derivativej concepts, which could by no means be passed over in a complete system of transcen­ dental philosophy, but with the mere mention of which I can be satis- A82 fied in a merely critical essay.
 
 Let me be allowed to call these pure but derivative concepts the B 108 predicables of pure understanding (in contrast to the predicaments). If one has the original and primitive concepts, the derivative and subalternate ones can easily be added, and the family treek of pure under­ standing fully illustrated. Since I am concerned here not with the a The words "of synthesis" are stricken in Kant's copy of the first edition (E XLIV, p. 24; 23:46).
 
 b Object , Princip Principium d e That is, the concep ts of when, where, and position, and the relations of priority and simultaneity.
 
 f motion Stammregister g action, passion h , Stammbegriffe J Clearly emphasized only in the first edition.
 
 Stammbaum k 213 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
