Trans. deduction of pure concepts of understanding <B> § 26.
 
 Transcendental deduction of the universally possible use of the pure concepts of the understanding in experience.
 
 In the metaphysical deduction45 the origin of the priori categories in a general was established through their complete coincidence with the universal logical functions of thinking, in the transcendental deduction, however, their possibility as priori cognitions of objects of an ina tuition in general was exhibited (§§ 20, 2 I). Now the possibility of cognizing priori through categories whatever objects may come bea fore our senses, not as far as the form of their intuition but rather as far as the laws of their combination are concerned, thus the possibility of as it were prescribing the law to nature and even making the latter possible, is to be explained. For if the categories did not serve in this B 160 way, it would not become clear why everything that may ever come before our senses must stand under the laws that arise priori from the un­ a derstanding alone.
 
 First of all I remark that by the synthesis of apprehension I under­ stand the composition of the manifold in an empirical intuition, through which perception, i.e., empirical consciousness of it (as ap­ pearance), becomes possible.
 
 We have forms of outer as well as inner sensible intuition priori in a the representations of space and time, and the synthesis of the appre­ hension of the manifold of appearance must always be in agreement with the latter, since it can only occur in accordance with this form. But space and time are represent.ed priori not merely as forms of sensible a intuition, but also as intuitions themselves (which contain a manifold), and thus with the determination of the unity of this manifold in them (see the Transcendental Aesthetic).*A6 Thus even unity of the synthe- B 161 * Space, represented as object (as is really required in geometry), contains more B 160 than the mere form of intuition, namely the comprehensiona of the manifold given in accordance with the form of sensibility in an intuitive representation, so that the form of intuition merely gives the manifold, but the formal intuition gives unity of the representation. In the Aesthetic I ascribed this unity merely to sensibility, only in order to note that it precedes all concepts, B 161 though to be sure it presupposes a synthesis, which does not belong to the senses but through which all concepts of space and time first become possible.
 
 , For since through it (as the understanding determines the sensibility) space or time are first given as intuitions, the unity of this priori intuition belongs to a space and time, and not to the concept of the understanding (§ 24) .
 
 ZusammenJassung • 261 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
