So one says of some足 one who undermined the foundation of his house that he could have known a priori that it would collapse, i.e., he need not have waited for the experience of it actually collapsing. Yet he could not have known this entirely a priori. 9 For that bodies are heavy and hence fall if their support is taken away must first have become known to him through experience.
 
 In the sequel therefore we will understand by a priori cognitions not those that occur independently of this or that experience, but rather those that occur absolutely independently of all experience. Opposed to B 3 them are empirical cognitions, or those that are possible onl)"" a posteriori, i.e., through experience. Among a priori cognitions, however, those are called pure with which nothing empirical is intermixed. Thus, e.g., the proposition "Every alteration has its cause" is an a priori proposition, only not pure, since alteration is a concept that can be drawn only from experience. IO II.
 
 We are in possession of certain a priori cognitions, and even the common understanding is never without them.
 
 At issue here is a mark by means of which we can securely distinguish a pure cognition from an empirical one. II Experience teaches us, to be sure, that something is constituted thus and so, but not that it could not be otherwise. First, then, if a proposition is thought along with its ne足 cessity, it is an a priori judgment; if it is, moreover, also not derived from any proposition except one that in turn is valid as a necessary proposition, then it is absolutely a priori. Second: Experience never gives its judgments true or strict but only assumed and comparative universality (through induction), so properly it must be said: as far as we have yet perceived, there is no exception to this or that rule. Thus if B4 a judgment is thought in strict universality, i.e., in such a way that no exception at all is allowed to be possible, then it is not derived from ex足 perience, but is rather valid absolutely a priori. Empirical universality is therefore only an arbitrary increase in validity from that which holds in most cases to that which holds in all, as in, e.g., the proposition "All bodies are heavy," whereas strict universality belongs to a judgment es足 sentially; this points to a special source of cognition for it, namely a faculty of a priori cognition. Necessity and strict universality are therefore secure indicationsfl of an a priori cognition, and also belong together ina Kennzeichen 137 Introduction <B> separably.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
