Those of the first school asserted that reality is in the objects of the senses alone, and that every­ thing else is imagination; those of the second school, on the contrary, said that in the senses there is nothing but semblance,a and that only the A854/ B 882 understanding cognizes that which is true. The former, however, did not on this account dispute the reality of the concepts of the understanding, but they were only logical for them, though they were mystical for the others. The former admitted intellectual concepts, but accepted only sensible objects. The latter demanded that the true objects be merely intelligible, and asserted an intuition through pure understanding not accompanied by any senses, which in their opinion only confused it.
 
 2. With regard to the origin of pure cognitions of reason, whether they are derived from experience or, independent of it, have their source in reason. Aristotle can be regarded as the head of the empiri­ cists, Plato that of the noologists. Locke, who in recent times fol­ lowed the former, and Leibniz, who followed the latter (although with sufficient distance from his mystical system), have nevertheless not been able to bring this dispute to any decision.50 Epicurus on his part at least proceeded more consistently in accord with his sensual system (for in his inferences he never exceeded the bounds of experience) than Aristotle and Locke (especially, however, the latter), who, after he had derived all concepts and principles from experience, goes so far in their use as to assert that one can prove the existence of God and the im­ mortality of the soul (though both objects lie entirely outside of the bounds of possible experience) just as self-evidently as any mathemati- A8S S / B 883 cal theoremY 3. With regard to method. If something is to be called a method, it must be a procedure in accordance with principles. Now one can divide the methods currently dominant in this department of natural inquiry into the naturalistic and the scientific. The naturalist of pure reason takes as his principle that through common understanding without sci­ ence (which he calls "healthy reason") more may be accomplished with regard to the most sublime questions that constitute the task of meta­ physics than through speculation. He asserts, therefore, that one can de­ termine the magnitude and breadth of the moon more securely by eye than by mathematical rigmarole. This is mere misology brought to principles, and, what is most absurd, the neglect of all artificial means is recommended as a method of its own for expanding cognition. For one cannot with good cause blame the naturalists for what follows from the lack of greater insight. They follow common reason, without boasta Schein 703 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
