On the transcendental ideal priori, then we find that through some of them a being is represented, and through others a mere non-being. Logical negation, which is in­ dicated solely by the little word "not," is never properly attached to a concept, but rather only to its relationa to another concept in a judg­ ment, and therefore it is far from sufficient to designate a concept in regard to its content. The expression "non-mortal" cannot at all give the cognition that a mere non-being is represented in the object, but leaves all content unaffected. A transcendental negation, on the con­ trary, signifies non-being in itself, and is opposed to transcendental affirmation, which is a Something,b the concept of which in itself al­ ready expresses a being, and hence it is called reality (thinghood),c be­ cause through it alone, and only so far as it reaches, are objects Something (things); the opposed negation, on the contrary, signifies a mere lack, and where this alone is thought, the removal of every thing A575/B603 is represented.
 
 Now no one can think a negation determinately without grounding it on the opposed affirmation. The person blind from birth cannot form the least representation of darkness, because he has no representation of light; the savage has no acquaintance with poverty, because he has none with prosperity.* The ignorant person has no concept of his igno­ rance, because he has none of science, etc. All concepts of negations are thus derivative, and the realities contain the data, the material, so to speak, or the transcendental content, for the possibility and the thor­ oughgoing determination of all things.
 
 Thus if the thoroughgoing determination in our reason is grounded on a transcendental substratum, which contains as it were the entire storehouse of material from which all possible predicates of things can be taken, then this substratum is nothing other than the idea of an All of reality (omnitudo realitatis). All true negations are then nothing but A5761B604 limits, which they could not be called unless they were grounded in the unlimited (the All).
 
 * The observations and calculations of astronomers have taught us much that is A 575/B 603 worthy of admiration, but most important, probably, is that they have exposed for us the abyss of our ignorance, which without this infonnationd human reason could never have imagined' to be so great; reflection on this ignorance has to produce a great alteration in the determination of the final aims! of the use of our reason.
 
 a Verbdltnis b Etwas (Kant's capitalization) Sacbbeit C Kenntnisse d vorstellen e f Endabsichten 555 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
