The antithetic of pure reason small), but the remaining two transcendent concepts of nature. Up to now this distinction has been of no particular relevance, but as we proceed it may become more important.
 
 The Antinomy of Pure Reason Second Section Antithetic of pure reason.
 
 If any sum total of dogmatic doctrines is a "thetic," then by "antithetic" I understand not the dogmatic assertion of the opposite but rather the conflict between what seem to be dogmatic cognitions (thesin cum an足 tithesl),a without the ascription of a preeminent claim to approval of one side or the other. Thus an antithetic does not concern itself with one- A42 I sided assertions, but considers only the conflict between general cognitions of reason and the causes of this conflict. The transcendental antithetic is an investigation into the antinomy of pure reason, its causes and its result. If in using principles of the understanding we apply our reason not merely to objects of experience, for the use of principles of B 449 understanding, but instead venture also to extend these principles beyond the boundaries of experience, then there arise sophistical theorems,b which may neither hope for confirmation in experience nor fear refutation by it; and each of them is not only without contradiction in itself but even meets with conditions of its necessity in the nature of reason itself, only unfortunately the opposite has on its side equally valid and necessary grounds for its assertion.
 
 The questions that are naturally presented by such a dialectic of pure reason are these: In which propositions is pure reason inevitably re足 I.
 
 ally subjected to an antinomy? 2. On what causes does this antinomy rest? 3. In what way, if any, given this contradiction, does a path to cer足 tainty nevertheless remain open to reason?
 
 A dialectical theorem of pure reason must accordingly have the fol足 lowing feature, distinguishing it from all sophisticale propositions: it does not concern an arbitrary question that one might raise only at A422 one's option, but one that every human reason must necessarily come up against in the course of its progress; and second, this proposition and its opposite must carry with them not merely an artificial illusion that disappears as soon as someone has insight into it, but rather a natural and unavoidable illusion, which even if one is no longer fooled by it, B450 a "thesis with antithesis." The correct Latin would be thesis; Kant does not seem to have made up his mind whether the phrase is supposed to be in Latin or in Greek.
 
 b vernunftelnde Lehrsdtze , sophistischen 467 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
