Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III from the share it has in that whole of possibility. * The principle of thor­ oughgoing determination thus deals with the content and not merely the logical form. It is the principle of the synthesis of all predicates which are to make up the complete concept of a thing, and not merely of the analytical representation, through one of two opposed predicates; and it contains a transcendental presupposition, namely that of the maA573/B6OI terial of all possibility, which is supposed to contain a priori the data for the particular possibility of every thing.
 
 The proposition Everything existing is thoroughly determined signifies not only that of every given pair of opposed predicates, but also of every pair of possible predicates, one of them must always apply to it; through this proposition predicates are not merely compared logically with one another, but the thing itself is compared transcendentally with the sum total of all possible predicates. What it means is that in order to cognize a thing completely one has to cognize everything possible and determine the thing through it, whether affirmatively or negatively.
 
 Thoroughgoing determination is consequently a concept that we can never exhibit in concreto in its totality, and thus it is grounded on an idea which has its seat solely in reason, which prescribes to the understand­ ing the rule of its complete use.
 
 Now although this idea of the sum total of all possibility, insofar as it grounds every thing as the condition of its thoroughgoing determi­ nation in regard to the predicates which may constitute the thing, is it­ self still indeterminate, and through it we think nothing beyond a sum total of all possible predicates in general, we nevertheless find on closer investigation that this idea, as an original concept, excludes a multiplic­ ity of predicates, which, as derived through others, are already given, Or A574/B602 cannot coexist with one another; and that it refines itself to a concept thoroughly determined a priori, and thereby becomes the concept of an individual object that is thoroughly determined merely through the idea, and then must be called an ideal of pure reason.
 
 If we consider all possible predicates not merely logically but tran­ scendentally, i.e., as to their content which can be thought in them a A572/B6oo * Thus through this principle every thing is related to a common correlate, namely the collective possibility, which, if it (i.e., the matter for all possible predicates) were present in the idea of an individual thing, would prove an affinity of everything possible through the identity of the ground of its thor­ oughgoing determination. The determinability of every single concept is the universality (universalitas) of the principle of excluded middle between two opposed predicates; but the determination of a thing is subordinated to the allness (universitas) or the sum total of all possible predicates.
 
 " Principium 554 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
