Pt. II. Div. I. Bk 1. Ch. I completeness of the system but rather only with the principlesa for a system, I reserve this supplementation for another job. But one could readily reach this aim if one took the ontological textbooks in hand, and, e.g., under the category of causality, subordinated the predicables of force, action, and passion; under that of community, those of pres­ ence and resistance; under the predicaments of modality those of gen­ eration, corruption, alteration, and so on. The categories combined either with the modis of sensibility or with each other yield a great mul­ titude of derivative a priori concepts, to take note of which and, as far as possible, completely catalogue would be a useful and not unpleasant but here dispensable effort.
 
 I deliberately spare myself the definitions of these categories in this A83 treatise, although I should like to be in possession of them. 13 In the se­ quel I will analyze these concepts to the degree that is sufficient in reB 109 lation to the doctrine of method that I am working up. In a system of pure reason one could rightly demand these of me; but here they would only distract us from the chief point of the investigation by arousing doubts and objections that can well be referred to another occasion without detracting from our essential aim. In any case, from the little that I have here adduced it becomes clear that a complete lexicon with all the requisite definitions should be not only possible but even easy to produce. The headings already exist; it is merely necessary to fill them out, and a systematic topic, such as the present one, will make it easy not to miss the place where every concept properly belongs and at the same time will make it easy to notice any that is still empty.b <§ 11.c Subtle considerations about this table of categories could be made, which could perhaps have considerable consequences with regard to the scientific form of all cognitions of reason. For that this table is uncom­ monly useful, indeed indispensable in the theoretical part of philosophy for completely outlining the plan for the whole of a science insofar as it rests on a priori concepts, and dividing it mathematically in ac­ cordance with determinate principles, d is already self-evident from the fact that this table completely contains all the elementary concepts Principien a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: b "What are categories? —That they extend only to objects of experience.
 
 "I. Whence do they arise?
 
 "2. How are they valid a priori of objects of experience?" (E XLV; pp. 24-5; 23:25) , Sections I I and 12 were added in the second edition. This explains how Kant can refer to the Metaphysical Foundations o/Natural SCience, not published until 1786.
 
 Principien d 214 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
