Systematic representation of all synthetic principles glass is the cause of the rising of the water above its horizontal plane, A204 though both appearances are simultaneous. For as soon as I draw the water into the glass from a larger vessel, something follows, namely the alteration of the horizontal state which the water had there into a concave state that it assumes in the glass.
 
 This causality leads to the concept of action, this to the concept of force, and thereby to the concept of substance.75 Since I will not crowd my critical project, which concerns solely the sources of synthetic a pri­ ori cognition, with analyses that address merely the elucidation (not the amplification) of concepts, I leave the detailed discussion of these con­ cepts to a future system of pure reason -especially since one can already find such an analysis in rich measure even in the familiar textbooks of this sort. Yet I cannot leave untouched the empirical criterion of a sub­ stance, insofar as it seems to manifest itself better and more readily through action than through the persistence of the appearance.
 
 \Vhere there is action, consequently activity and force, there is also B 250 substance, and in this alone must the seat of this fruitful source of ap­ pearances be sought. That is quite well said; but if one would explain what one understands by substance, and in so doing avoid a vicious circle, then the question is not so easily answered. How will one infer di- A20S rectly from the action to the persistence of that which acts, which is yet such an essential and singular characteristic of the substance (phaenomenon)? Yet given what we have already said, the solution of the question is not subject to such a difficulty, though after the usual fashion (pro­ ceeding merely analytically with its concepts) it would be entirely insoluble. Action already signifes the relation of the subject of causality to the effect. Now since all effect consists in that which happens, consequently in the changeable, which indicates succession in time, the ultimate subject of the changeable is therefore that which persists, as the substratum of everything that changes, i.e., the substance. For according to the principle of causality actions are always the primary ground of all change of appearances, and therefore cannot lie in a subject that itself changes, since otherwise further actions and another subject, which de­ termines this change, would be required. Now on this account action, as a sufficient empirical criterion, proves substantiality without it being necessary for me first to seek out its persistence through compared per- B 251 ceptions, a way in which the completeness that is requisite for the quantitya and strict universality of the concept could not be attained. For that the primary subject of the causality of all arising and perishing cannot itself arise and perish (in the field of appearances) is a certain inference, which leads to empirical necessity and persistence in existence, conse- A 206 quently to the concept of a substance as appearance.
 
 a Griifie 313 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
