Systematic representation of all synthetic principles derive from the fact that things are positioned at the same time that their perceptions can follow each other reciprocally. The synthesis of the imagination in apprehension would therefore only present each of these perceptions as one that is present in the subject when the other is not, and conversely, but not that the objectsa are simultaneous, i.e., that if the one is then the other also is in the same time, and that this is nec­ essary in order for the perceptions to be able to succeed each other re­ ciprocally. Consequently, a concept of the understanding of the reciprocal sequence of the determinations of these things simultane­ ously existing externally to each other is required in order to say that the reciprocal sequence of perceptions is grounded in the object,b and thereby to represent the simultaneity as objective. Now, however, the relation of substances in which the one contains determinations the ground of which is contained in the other is the relation of influence, B 258 and, if the latter reciprocally contains the ground of the determinations of the former, it is the relation of community or interaction. Thus the simultaneity of substances in space cannot be cognized in experience otherwise than under the presupposition of an interaction among them; this is therefore also the condition of the possibility of the things themselves as objects of experience.> CThings are simultaneous insofar as they exist at one and the same A 2 I I time. But how does one cognize that they exist at one and the same time? If the order in the synthesis of the apprehension of this manifold is indifferent, i.e., if it can proceed from A through B, C, and D to E, but also conversely from E to A. For if they existedd in time one after the other (in the order that begins with A and ends at E), then it would be impossible to begin the apprehension at the perception of E and proceed backwards to A, since A would belong to past time, and thus can no longer be an object of apprehension.'·77 Now if you assume that in a manifold of substances as appearances A212 Objecte n Objecte b , The text common to the two editions resumes here.
 
 d Reading sie waren instead of sie ware, so that the antecedent can be plural; even so, it re­ mains unclear whether Kant intends the antecedent to be the "things" referred to at the beginning of the paragraph, or the representations A through E constituting the manifold.
 
 , In his copy of the first edition, Kant struck out the preceding paragraph and inserted the following note: "Space makes community possible. Now since the thinking being with all its faculties, whose effects belong merely to inner sense, is not a relation [Relation] of space, the commercium of the soul with the body is therefore not comprehensible. The community of things in themselves must either have a third substance, in which they exist as accidentia and are in relation to one another -Spinozism -or, since this won't do, it remains incomprehensible. Space is itself the phaenomenon of possible community. If I consider bodies merely as phaenomena that are in me, the cognitive faculty of inner sense may well stand in community with those of outer sense." (E LXXXVI, p. 34; 23:31-2) 317 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
