Pt. II. Transcendental Logic without concepts are blind. I It is thus just as necessary to make the mind's concepts sensible (i.e., to add an object to them in intuition) as it is to make its intuitions understandable (i.e., to bring them under concepts). Further, these two faculties or capacities cannot exchange their functions. The understanding is not capable of intuiting anything, and the senses are not capable of thinking anything. Only from their B 76 unification can cognition arise. But on this account one must not mix A52 up their roles, rather one has great cause to separate them carefully from each other and distinguish them. Hence we distinguish the science of the rules of sensibility in general, i.e., aesthetic, from the science of the rules of understanding in general, i.e., logic.
 
 Now logic in turn can be undertaken with two different aims, either as the logic of the general or of the particular use of the understanding. The former contains the absolutely necessary rules of thinking, without which no use of the understanding takes place, and it therefore concerns these rules without regard to the difference of the objects to which it may be directed.2 The logic of the particular use of the understanding contains the rules for correctly thinking about a certain kind of objects. The for­ mer can be called elementary logic, the latter, however, the organon of this or that science. In the schools the latter is often stuck before the sci­ ences as their propaedeutic, though in the course of human reason they are certainly the latest to be reached, once the science is already long complete, and requires only the final touch for its improvement and per­ fection. For one must already know the objects rather well if one will B 77 offer the rules for how a science of them is to be brought about.
 
 Now general logic is either pure or applied logic. In the former we A 53 abstract from all empirical conditions under which our understanding is exercised, e.g., from the influence of the senses, from the play of imagination," the laws of memory, the power of habit, inclination, etc., hence also from the sources of prejudice, indeed in general from all causes from which certain cognitions arise or may be supposed to arise, because these merely concern the understanding under certain circum­ stances of its application, and experience is required in order to know these. A general but pure logic therefore has to do with strictly a pri­ ori principles/ and is a canon of the understanding and reason, but only in regard to what is formal in their use, be the content what it may (empirical or transcendental). A general logic, however, is then called applied if it is directed to the rules of the use of the understanding under the subjective empirical conditions that psychology teaches us. It therefore has empirical principles/ although it is to be sure general ina Einbildung b Principien Principien C 194 Introduction sofar as it concerns the use of the understanding without regard to the difference of objects.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
