Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III tends our information about nature through the guiding thread of a particular unity whose principle a is outside nature. But this acquain­ A624/B652 tance also reacts upon its cause, namely the idea that occasioned it, and increases the belief in a highest author to the point where it becomes an irresistible conviction.
 
 Thus it would be not only discomfiting but also quite pointless to try to remove anything from the reputation of this proof. Reason, cease­ lessly elevated by the powerful though only empirical proofs that are al­ ways growing in its hands, cannot be so suppressed through any doubt drawn from subtle and abstract speculation that it is not torn at once out of every brooding indecision, just as from a dream, by throwing a glance on the wonders of nature and the majesty of the world's archi­ tecture,b by which it elevates itself from magnitude to magnitude up to the highest of all, rising from the conditioned to the condition, up to the supreme and unconditioned author.
 
 But although we have nothing to object against the rationality and utility of this procedure, but rather recommend and encourage it, we cannot on that account approve of the claims that this kind of proof may make to apodictic certainty and to having no need for approval based on any special favor or need of outside support; it can in no way harm the good cause to tone down the dogmatic language of a scornful sophist'" to the tone of moderation and modesty of a belief that is suffi­ cient to comfort us, although not to command unconditional submisA625 / B 653 sion. Accordingly, I assert that the physico-theological proof can never establish the existence of a highest being alone, but must always leave it up to the ontological proof (to which it serves only as an introduction) in order to make good this lack; thus the latter still contains the only possible argument!II (insofar as there is a merely speculative proof at all), which no human reason can bypass.
 
 The chief moments of the physico-theological proof we are thinking of are the following: I) Everywhere in the world there are clear signs of an order according to determinate aim, carried out with great wisdom, and in a whole of indescribable manifoldness in content as well as of un­ bounded magnitude in scope. 2) This purposive order is quite foreign to the things of the world, and pertains to them only contingently, i.e., the natures of different things could not by themselvese agree in so many united means to determinate final aims, were they not quite prop­ erly chosen for and predisposed to it through a principle! of rational a Princip b Weltbau fremden C d Vernunftlers , von selbst f Princip 580 Section VI.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
