Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> B 59 General remarks on the transcendental aesthetic.
 
 It will first be necessary to explain as distinctly as possible our opin­ A42 ion in regard to the fundamental constitution of sensible cognition in general, in order to preclude all misinterpretation of it.
 
 We have therefore wanted to say that all our intuition is nothing but the representation of appearance; that the things that we intuit are not in themselves what we intuit them to be, nor are their relations so con­ stituted in themselves as they appear to us; and that if we remove our own subject or even only the subjective constitution of the senses in general, then all the constitution, all relations of objectsa in space and time, indeed space and time themselves would disappear, and as ap­ pearances they cannot exist in themselves, but only in us. What may be the case with objects in themselves and abstracted from all this recep­ tivity of our sensibility remains entirely unknown to us. We are ac­ quainted with nothing except our way of perceiving them, which is peculiar to us, and which therefore does not necessarily pertain to every being, though to be sure it pertains to every human being. We are conB 60 cerned solely with this. Space and time are its pure forms, sensation in general its matter. We can cognize only the former priori, i.e., prior to a all actual perception, and they are therefore called pure intuition; the latter, however, is that in our cognition that is responsible for it being called posteriori cognition, i.e., empirical intuition. The former ad­ a heres to our sensibility absolutely necessarily, whatever sort of sensaA43 tions we may have; the latter can be very different. Even if we could bring this intuition of ours to the highest degree of distinctness we would not thereby come any closer to the constitution of objects in themselves. For in any case we would still completely cognize only our own way of intuiting, i.e., our sensibility, and this always only under the conditions originally depending on the subject, space and time; what the objects may be in themselves would still never be known through the most enlightened cognition of their appearance, which is alone given to us.
 
 That our entire sensibility is nothing but the confused representation of things, which contains solely that which pertains to them in them­ selves but only under a heap of marks and partial representations that we can never consciously separate from one another, is therefore a fal­ sification of the concept of sensibility and of appearance that renders the entire theory of them useless and empty. The difference between an B6I indistinct and a distinct representation is merely logical, and does not concern the content. Without doubt the concept of right that is used a Objecte 168 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
