He sought likewise to defend its scientific character against skeptics who dismiss its rigorous arguments as insufficient and against proponents of "common sense" who regard them as pedantic and superfluous. As Kant compared dogmatic metaphysicians to de­ fenders of despotism, so he likened skeptics to nomads who abhor any form of permanent civil society and are prepared to disrupt or over­ throw the monarchy of metaphysics, and Lockeans to calumniators who would foist a false and degrading genealogy on the monarch. Those who would pretend indifference to metaphysical inquiries he charged with being closet dogmatists, like supporters of a corrupt regime who scoff at its defects and feign ironic detachment from it but have no in­ dependent convictions of their own.
 
 Kant's position thus required him not only to undermine the argu­ ments of traditional metaphysics but also to put in their place a scien­ tific metaphysics of his own, which establishes what can be known a priori but also limits it to that which is required for ordinary experi­ ence and its extension into natural science. Kant therefore had to find a way to limit the pretensions of the dogmatists while still defending metaphysics as a science which is both possible (as was denied by the skeptics) and necessary (as was denied by the indifferentists). Thus Kant had to fight a war on several different fronts,S in which he had to es­ tablish the un answerability of many metaphysical questions against both dogmatists and empiricists but also defend parts of the positions he was attacking, such as the possibility of a priori cognition of the fun­ damental principles of natural science, against both empiricists and skeptics. And while he wanted to prove to the indifferentists that a sci­ ence of metaphysics is important, he also wanted to embrace part of their position, since he thought that in regard to some insoluble meta­ physical questions, indeed the most important of them, we can defend a kind of commonsense belief -in God, freedom and immortality -be­ cause our moral outlook has an inescapable stake in them.
 
 The structure of the Critique. This complex program led to the enormous complexity of the structure and argument of the Critique of Pure Reason. To many readers, the elaborate structure or "architectonic" of the Critique has been a barrier to understanding it, but a brief ac­ count of the origin of the main divisions of the book can illuminate its contents. Although these contents are profoundly original, Kant actu­ ally borrowed much of the book's structure from well-known models.
 
 After the preface (which was completely rewritten for the second edi­ tion) and the introduction, the Critique is divided into two main parts, the "Doctrine of Elements" and the "Doctrine of Method." This dis­ tinction is a variation on a distinction common in German logic text­ books between "general logic" and "special" or applied 10gic;6 in Kant's hands, it becomes a rubric to distinguish between his fundamental ex3 Introduction posltlOn of his theory of a priori cognition and its limits, in the "Doctrine of Elements," and his own reflections on the methodological implications of that theory, under the rubric of the "Doctrine of Method," where he provides contrasts between mathematical and philosophical proof and between theoretical and practical reasoning, as well as contrasts between his own critical method and dogmatic, em­ pirical, and skeptical methods of philosophy.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
