Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III but not of speculative cognition. For if one abstracts from it as a prin­ ciple that contains the condition of possible experience in general, and, leaving out everything empirical, wants to assert it of the contingent in general, then not the least justification is left over for any synthetic proposition from which it can be discerned how I can go from what ex­ ists to something entirely different (called its cause); indeed, in such a speculative use the concept of a cause, like that of the contingent, loses all the significance that is made comprehensible by its objective reality in concreto.
 
 Now if one infers from the existence of things in the world to their cause, this does not belong to the natural but to the speculative use of reason; for the former does not relate the things themselves (sub­ stances) to any cause, but relates to a cause only what happens, thus their states, as empirically contingent; that the substance itself (the matter) is contingent as to its existence would have to be a merely specA636/B664 ulative cognition of reason. But if it were only a matter of the form of the world, the way it is combined and the changes of combination, yet I wanted to infer from this to a cause that is entirely distinct from the world, then this once again would be a judgment of merely speculative reason, because the object here is not any objecta of a possible experi­ ence. But then the principle of causality, which holds only within llie field of possible experience and outside it is without any use or indeed without any meaning,b would be completely diverted from its vocation.
 
 Now I assert that all attempts of a merely speculative use of reason in regard to theology are entirely fruitless and by their internal constitu­ tion null and nugatory, but that the principlesc of reason's natural use do not lead at all to any theology; and consequently, if one did not ground it on moral laws or use them as guides, there could be no the­ ology of reason at all. For all synthetic principles of understanding are of immanent use; but for the cognition of a highest being a transcen­ dent use of them would be required, for which our understanding is not equipped at all. If the empirically valid law of causality is to lead to an original being, then this would have to belong to the causal chain in ob­ jects of experience; but then it, like all appearances, would have to be A637 1B66S conditioned. But even if one were allowed to leap over the boundary of experience by means of the dynamical law of the relation of effects to their causes, what concept can this procedure obtain for us? Far from any concept of a highest being, because for us experience never offers us the greatest of all possible effects (such as would bear witness to this as its cause). If, merely so that nothing empty is left in our reason, we a Object Bedeutung b , Principien 586 Section VII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
