Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. 1. Ch. II. <B> e.g., "Bodies are heavy." By that, to be sure, I do not mean to say that these representations necessarily belong to one another in the empir­ ical intuition, but rather that they belong to one another in virtue of the necessary unity of the apperception in the synthesis of intuitions, i.e., in accordance with principles a of the objective determination of all representations insofar as cognition can come from them, which prin­ ciplesb are all derived from the principle of the transcendental unity of apperception. Only in this way does there arise from this relatione a judgment, i.e., a relation that is objectively valid, and that is suffi­ ciently distinguished from the relation of these same representations in which there would be only subjective validity, e.g., in accordance with laws of association. In accordance with the latter I could only say "If I carry a body, I feel a pressure of weight," but not "It, the body, is heavy," which would be to say that these two representations are com­ bined in the object,d i.e., regardless of any difference in the condition of the subject, and are not merely found together in perception (however often as that might be repeated).
 
 BI43 § 20.
 
 All sensible intuitions stand under the categories, as conditions under which alone their manifold can come together in one consciousness.
 
 The manifold that is given in a sensible intuition necessarily belongs under the original synthetic unity of apperception, since through this alone is the unity of the intuition possible (§ 17)' That action of the un­ derstanding, however, through which the manifold of given representa­ tions (whether they be intuitions or concepts) is brought under an apperception in general, is the logical function of judgments (§ I9)' Therefore all manifold, insofar as it is given in onee empirical intuition, is determined in regard to one of the logical functions for judgment, by means of which, namely, it is brought to a consciousness in general.
 
 But now the categories are nothing other than these very functions for judging, insofar as the manifold of a given intuition is determined with regard to them (§ I3).41 Thus the manifold in a given intuition also nec­ essarily stands under categories.
 
 Principien n Principien b , Verbaltnisse; the further occurrences of "relation" in this sentence translate further oc­ currences of Verbalmis.
 
 d Object , Einer. Not ordinarily capitalized, suggesting the translation "one" instead of merely "an." 252 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
