Pt. II. Transcendental Logic logical form in the relationa of cognitions to one another, i.e., the form of thinking in general. But now since there are pure as well as empiri­ cal intuitions (as the transcendental aesthetic proved), a distinction beB 80 tween pure and empirical thinking of objects could also well be found.
 
 In this case there would be a logic in which one did not abstract from all content of cognition; for that logic that contained merely the rules of the pure thinking of an object would exclude all those cognitions that were of empirical content. It would therefore concern the origin of our A 56 cognitions of objects insofar as that cannot be ascribed to the objects; while general logic, on the contrary, has nothing to do with this origin of cognition, but rather considers representations, whether they are originally given priori in ourselves or only empirically, merely in re­ a spect of the laws according to which the understanding brings them into relationb to one another when it thinks, and therefore it deals only with the form of the understanding, which can be given to the repre­ sentations wherever they may have originated.
 
 And here I make a remark the import of which extends to all of the following considerations, and that we must keep well in view, namely that not every priori cognition must be called transcendental, but only a that by means ofw hich we cognize that and how certain representations (intuitions or concepts) are applied entirely priori, or are possible (i.e., a B 81 the possibility ofc ognition or its use priori). Hence neither space nor a any geometrical determination of it priori is a transcendental repre­ a sentation, but only the cognition that these representations are not of empirical origin at all and the possibility that they can' nevertheless be related priori to objects of experience can be called transcendental.
 
 a Likewise the use of space about all objects in general would also be transcendental; but if it is restricted solely to objects of the senses, then A 57 it is called empirical. The difference between the transcendental and the empirical therefore belongs only to the critique of cognitions and does not concern their relation to their object.
 
 In the expectation, therefore, that there can perhaps be concepts that may be related to objects priori, not as pure or sensible intuitions but a rather merely as acts of pure thinking, that are thus concepts but of nei­ ther empirical nor aesthetic origin, we provisionally formulate the idea of a science of pure understanding and of the pure cognition of reason, by means of which we think objects completely priori. Such a science, a which would determine the origin, the domain, and the objective valid­ ity of such cognitions, would have to be called transcendental logic, since it has to do merely with the laws of the understanding and reason, Verbaltnisse a b Verbaltnis , Following Erdmann, reading kiinnen instead of kiinne.
 
 196 Introduction but solely insofar as they are related to objects priori and not, as in the B 82 a case of general logic, to empirical as well as pure cognitions of reason without distinction.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
