We will explain the contents of Kant’s first big paper in detail because it will help you understand what ideas Kant kept and what ideas he had to change later in his main book. Kant starts by talking about a problem called the antinomies. He says that just like you can keep breaking things down until you reach the simplest part, you can also keep putting parts together until you get a whole world. 

He then explains that since the world we see is shaped by space and time, which are continuous, there can be no real limit when breaking things down or putting them together. So, you can’t find a simple part or a complete world this way. But he says that pure ideas from the mind let us understand a different kind of world, where parts aren’t just pieces of space and time but are substances, and these substances depend on God. This way, we can have real knowledge about simple things and the whole world.

The rest of the paper is split into parts: first, the difference between how we sense things and how we think about them; second, how we perceive the world through our senses; third, how our understanding works; and fourth, the final argument that even though our senses have limits, our mind can still know about things beyond what we can sense. The third part is used again in Kant’s main book without much change, but the fourth part is changed a lot. Because of this, the last part about the antinomies also had to be changed later.

In the second part, Kant explains the difference between sensibility and intelligence. Sensibility is our ability to be affected by things around us through our senses. Intelligence, or the intellect, is the ability to think about things that we can’t sense directly. He says that things we know through our senses are just how things appear to us, while things we know through our intellect are how things really are.

Kant gives two reasons for this idea. First, sensory knowledge depends on the subject, meaning different people might sense the same thing differently, so they don’t all know the object as it truly is. Second, objects don’t affect our senses because of their shape or form, but because of their material stuff. So, the form of...
