We cannot comment on all this material here; instead, after some brief comments on the revisions to the Critique of Pure Reason that are implicit in the Prolegomena and Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science, we will con­ clude this introduction by outlining the main changes made in the sec­ ond edition of the first Critique.
 
 After a year of silence, broken only by two friendly but insignificant reviews published in Frankfurt and Greifswald, the Critique finally re­ ceived its first serious review in the first supplementary volume of the Gijttingischen Anzeigen von gelehrten Sachen for 1782. The university at G6ttingen, which had been founded in 1737 by George I of England in his continuing capacity as Georg August, elector of Hanover, was home to a group of empiricist philosophers led by J. G. H. Feder (1740-1820). The review, apparently abridged and rewritten by Feder from a much longer and more sympathetic draft by the Berlin moral philosopher Christian Garve (1742-1798), was dismissive.I67 The ver­ sion of the review published by Feder omitted Garve's careful exposi­ tion of much oLKant's arguments and his quite insightful interpretation of Kant's justification of the possibility of synthetic a priori cognition in general, and in mathematics in particular, to focus on three objections.
 
 First, it charged that Kant's "system of the higher or . . . t ranscendental idealism" was nothing but a restatement of Berkeley's idealism, reduc­ ing all objects to our own sensations and leaving the real existence of any objects beyond our own representations entirely unknown. Second, it argued that on Kant's account there could be no differentiation "be­ tween the actual and the imagined, the merely possible," between the actual and "mere visions and fantasies." Third, it charged that Kant's ar­ gument that the unsound theoretical use of pure reason can and must be replaced by a sound practical use was entirely unnecessary, since morality already has a sound foundation in common sense.
 
 Kant had apparently already formulated the intention to write a shorter and more popular presentation of his critical philosophy almost as soon as the Critique was published, but the hostile review clearly galvanized him, and he included explicit answers to some of its charges in the pages of the Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics that he pub­ lished in August 1783. Specifically, he differentiated his position from Berkeleian idealism by arguing that he denied the real existence of space and time and the spatiotemporal properties of objects, but not the real ex­ istence of objects themselves distinct from our representations, and for this reason he proposed renaming his transcendental idealism with the more informative name of "formal" or "critical idealism," making it clear that his idealism concerned the form but not the existence of ex­ ternal objects.I68 Further, he argued that his theory of the understand67 Introduction ing and its principles, unlike the usual brands of idealism, offered de­ terminate principles for establishing the coherence of veridical experi­ ence as contrasted to incoherent dreams and fantasies, I69 and that for this reason it should not be considered a form of "higher" idealism, an expression in which he detected a pejorative implication of fancifulness, but rather a philosophy firmly rooted in the "fruitful bathos of experi­ ence.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
