The Abbe Terrasson says that if the size of a book is mea­ sured not by the number of pages but by the time needed to understand it, then it can be said of many a book that it would be much shorter if it were not so short.9 But on the other hand, if we direct our view toward the intelligibility of a whole of speculative cognition that is wide-ranging and yet is connected in principle,a we could with equal right say that many a book would have been much clearer if it had not been made quite so clear. For the aids to clarity helpb in the parts but often confuse in the whole, since the reader cannot quickly enough attain a survey of the whole; and all their bright colors paint over and make unrecognizable the articulation or structure of the system, which yet matters most when it comes to judging its unity and soundness. 10 It can, as it seems to me, be no small inducement for the reader to unite his effort with that of the author, when he has the prospect of car­ rying out, according to the outline given above, a great and important piece of work, and that in a complete and lasting way. Now metaAXX physics, according to the concepts we will give ofi t here, is the only one of all the sciences that may promise that little but unified effort, and that indeed in a short time, will complete it in such a way that nothing remains to posterity except to adapt it in a didactic manner to its in­ tentions, yet without being able to add to its content in the least. For it is nothing but the inventory of all we possess through pure reason, or­ dered systematically. Nothing here can escape us, because what reason brings forth entirely out of itself cannot be hidden, but is brought to light by reason itself as soon as reason's common principlec has been dis­ covered. The perfect unity of this kind of cognition, and the fact that it arises solely out of pure concepts without any influence that would ex­ tend or increase it from experience or even particular intuition, which would lead to a determinate experience, make this unconditioned com­ pleteness not only feasible but also necessary. Tecum habita, et naris quam sit tibi curta supellex. -Persius.d Axxi Such a system of pure (speculative) reason I hope myself to deliver a Princip Kant's text reads ''fohlen'' (are missing). We follow Erdmann, reading helfen.
 
 b , Princip d "Dwell in your own house, and you will know how simple your possessions are" (Persius, Satires 4: 5 2 ) .
 
 104 Preface <A> under the title Metaphysics of Nature, which will be not half so ex­ tensive but will be incomparably richer in content than this critique, which had first to display the sources and conditions of its possibility, and needed to clear and level a ground that was completely overgrown.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
