Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II which is not itself contained in perception but contains the synthetic unity of the manifold of perception in one consciousness, which consti­ tutes what is essential in a cognition of objects a of the senses, i.e., of exB 2 19 perience (not merely of the intuition or sensation of the senses). Now in experience, to be sure, perceptions come together only contingently, so that no necessity of their connection is or can become evident in the per­ ceptions themselves, since apprehension is only a juxtapositionb of the manifold of empirical intuition, but no representation of the necessity of the combined existence of the appearances that it juxtaposes in space and time is to be encountered in it. But since experience is a cognition of ob­ jectsC through perception, consequently the relationd in the existence of the manifold is to be represented in it not as it is juxtaposed in time but as it is objectively in time, yet since time itself cannot be perceived, the determination of the existence of objectse in time can only come about through their combination in time in general, hence only through a pri­ ori connecting concepts. Now since these always carry necessity along with them, experience is thus possible only through a representation of the necessary connection of the perceptions.> A I 77 fThe three modi oft ime are persistence, succession, and simultaneity. Hence three rules of all temporal relations of appearances, in accor­ dance with which the existenceg of each can be determined with regard to the unity of all time, precede all experience and first make it possible.
 
 B 220 The general principle of all three analogies rests on the necessary unity of apperception with regard to all possible empirical conscious­ ness (of perception) at every time, consequently, since that is an a pri­ ori ground, it rests on the synthetic unity of all appearances according to their relations in time. For the original apperception is related to inner sense (the sum of all representations), and indeed related a priori Objecte a b Zusammenstellung , Objecte d Throughout this section of the work, "relation" will translate. Verba/tnis unless other­ wise noted.
 
 , Objecte f The text common to the two editions resumes here, although in his copy of the first edi­ tion Kant had struck out the next two paragraphs and instead written the following two notes: "For the proposition that I myself am simultaneous with all time in me so far as I think it, i.e., with the whole time that I think, or its form, would be tautologous." (E LXXIv, p. 3 I; 23:29) "The principle of persistence does not concern things in themselves, hence the sub­ ject of the representations of things as itself, i.e., apperception, but only appearances.
 
 For the concept of time does not apply to anything else, not even to the subject. of time itself." (E Lxxv, p. 31; 23:29) In Kant's copy of the first edition, "existence" is replaced with "the relation [Verhaltnis] g of the real in appearance" (E LXXVI, p. 31; 23:47).
 
 296 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
