In sum, then, the bulk of Kant's changes in the second edition grew out of his desire to refine and defend his transcendental idealism by showing that only it could explain our a priori knowledge while at the same time arguing that it was completely compatible with the real exis­ tence of external objects. Beyond this, Kant wanted to emphasize the positive role of reason in the practical rather than theoretical sphere, and he continued to try to find a clear and adequate deduction of the categories. These concerns led him to revise substantially his introduc­ tion, the "Transcendental Aesthetic," and the chapter on phenomena and noumena, as well as to revise completely his preface, the "Trans­ cendental Deduction" of the categories, and the "Paralogisms of Pure Reason." Note on translation This is an entirely new translation of the Critique of Pure Reason. Our intention in producing this translation has been to try to give the reader of the translation an experience as close as possible to that of the reader of the German original. The criterion for success in this intention is that as much interpretative work be left for the reader of the translation as is left for the reader of the original. This intention has dictated a number of our choices.
 
 Obviously it has required as much consistency as possible in the translation of Kant's terminology; to the extent possible, we have always used the same English word for any philosophically significant German word, and where a single English word has had to stand duty for several German words, we have noted this fact. This situation typically arises when Kant uses both a germanic and a latinate word that would be translated into English by the same word, e.g., "Gegenstand" and "Object," both of which are translated into English as "object." In some such cases it may be a matter of interpretation whether Kant means pre­ cisely the same thing or not, so we have preserved the information about his usage by marking the Latinate member of the pair in the foot­ notes, but have not imposed any interpretation of the distinction in the text.
 
 Other obvious consequences of our underlying intention include the preservation of Kant's sentences as wholes, even where considerations of readability might have suggested breaking them up, and the preser­ vation of ambiguous and obscure constructions in Kant's original text wherever possible. The latter decision means that we have refrained from accepting emendations to the German text as long as we believe 73 Introduction some sense can be made of the unemended original, even if a proposed emendation makes easier sense out of a given passage.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
