Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II B 288 a<General Note on the System of Principles It is very remarkable that we cannot have insight into the possibility of any thing in accordance with the mere categories, but we must always have available an intuition in order for it to display the objective reality of the pure concept of the understanding. Take, e.g., the categories of relation.b How I) something can exist only as subject, not as mere de­ termination of other things, i.e., can be substance; or how 2) because something is, something else must be, thus how something can be a cause at all; or 3) how, if several things exist, from the existence of one of them something about the others follows and vice versa, and in this way a community of substances can obtain -insight into these cannot be had from mere concepts at all. The same thing also holds of the other categories, e.g., how a thing can be one with a number of others taken together, i.e., be a magnitude, etc. Thus as long as intuition is lacking, one does not know whether one thinks an object:" through the categories, and whether there can ever be any object that even fits them; and so it is confirmed that the categories are not by themselves cognitions, but mere fonns of thought for making cognitions out of B 289 given intuitions. -In the same way it follows that no synthetic proposi­ tion can be made out of mere categories -e.g., in all existence there is substance, i.e., something that can exist only as subject and never as mere predicate; or, everything is a quantum, etc. -if there is nothing that we can use in order to go beyond a given concept and thereby con­ nect it with another. Hence also no one has ever succeeded in proving a synthetic proposition merely from pure concepts of the understand­ ing, e.g., the proposition "Every contingently existing thing has a cause." One could never get further than to prove that without this re­ latione we could not comprehend the existence! of the contingent at all, i.e., cognize the existence of such a thing priori through the un­ a derstanding; from which, however, it does not follow that this is also the condition of the possibility of things themselves. Hence if one will look back on our proof of the principle of causality, one will become aware that we could prove it only of objectsg of possible experience: "Everything that happens (every occurrence) presupposes a cause"; and indeed we could prove it only as a principleh of the possibility of expea This note was added in its entirety in the second edition.
 
 Relation b , Object Object d , Beziehung f Existenz, here and in the next clause.
 
 Objecten g Princip h 334 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
