The antithetic of pure reason tuition of an object,a but this intuition is definitely required for absolute simplicity, it follows that this simplicity cannot be inferred from any perception, whatever it might be. Since, therefore, nothing can ever be given as an absolutely simple objectb in any possible experience, but the world of sense must be regarded as the sum total of all possible experi­ ences, nothing simple is given anywhere in it.
 
 This second proposition of the antithesis goes much further than the first, since the first banishes the simple only from the intuition of the composite, while the second, on the other hand, does away with the simple in the whole of nature; hence also it could not have been proved from the concept of a given object of outer intuition (of the composite), but only from itsC relation to a possible experience in general.
 
 II. Remark On the Antithesis Against this proposition that matter is infinitely divisible, for which the ground of proof is merely mathematical, objections have been put for­ ward by monadists,62 who already lay themselves open to suspicion by the fact that they would not allow even the clearest mathematical proofs to count as insights into the constitution of space, insofar as it is in fact the formal condition of the possibility of all matter, but would rather re­ gard these proofs only as inferences from abstract but arbitraryd con­ cepts which could not be related e to real things. It is as if it were possible to think up another kind of intuition than the one given in the original intuition of space, and to treat the determinations of space a priori as not at the same time applying to what is possible only insofar as it fills space. If one listens to them, then besides mathematical points, which are simple but are boundaries rather than parts of space, one would have to think of physical points too as being not only simple, but as also having, as parts of space, the privilege of filling it through their mere aggregation. Without repeating here the common and clear refutations of this absurdity, of which there are many, just as it is entirely pointless to try by merely discursive concepts to rationalizer away the evidence of a Object; In the first edition: " . . .fr om the non-consciousness of a manifold to the com­ plete impossibility of such a [manifold] in any intuition of the same object .. ." b Object , desselben; the grammatically possible antecedents for this possessive pronoun are: (1) "object" (in "a given object of outer intuition"); (2) "concept" (in "the concept of [the object (1)]"; and (3) "the composite." Given the argument of the previous paragraph, the most likely candidate seems to us to be (1), or possibly ( 2).
 
 d willkurlichen , bezogen f vernunfteln 479 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
