Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. III <B> representable. But such a perversion of words is a merely sophistical evasion for escaping from a difficult question by reducing its sense to a commonplace. With regard to appearances, to be sure, both under­ standing and reason can be used; but it must be asked whether they would still have any use if the object were not appearance (noumenon), and one takes it in this sense if one thinks of it as merely intelligible, i.e., as given to the understanding alone and not to the senses at all. The question is thus: whether beyond the empirical use of the under­ standing (even in the Newtonian representation of the cosmos) a tran­ scendental one is also possible, pertaining to the noumenon as an object -which question we have answered negatively.
 
 A 2 58 If, therefore, we say: The senses represent objects to us as they appear, but the understanding, as they are, then the latter is not to be taken in a transcendental but in a merely empirical way, signifying, namely, how they must be represented as objects of experience, in the B 3 14 thoroughgoing connectiona of appearances, and not how they might be outside oft he relation to possible experience and consequently to sense in general, thus as objects of pure understanding. For this will always remain unknown to us, so that it even remains unknown whether such a transcendental (extraordinary) cognition is possible at all, at least as one that stands under our customary categories. With us understand­ ing and sensibility can determine an object only in combination. If we separate them, then we have intuitions without concepts, or con­ cepts without intuitions, but in either case representations that we can­ not relate to any determinate object.
 
 If after all this discussion anyone still has reservations about denying the categories a merely transcendental use, then he should test them in any synthetic assertion. For an analytic one takes the understanding no further, and since it is occupied only with that which is already thought in the concept, it leaves it undecided whether the concept even has any A259 relation to objects, or only signifies the unity of thinking in general (which entirely abstracts from the way in which an object might be given); it is enough for him to know what lies in its concept; what the concept might pertain to is indifferent to him. He should accordingly B 3 I 5 test it with some synthetic and allegedly transcendental principle, such as: "Everything that is, exists as substance, or a determination depen­ dent on it," "Everything contingent exists as the effect of another thing, namely its cause," etc. Now I ask: Whence will he derive these synthetic propositions, since the concepts are not to hold of possible experience but rather of things in themselves (noumena)? Where is the third thing that is always requisite for a synthetic proposition in order to connect with each other concepts that have no logical (analytical) affinity? He a Zusammenhang 364 Phenomena and Noumena <B> will never prove his proposition, indeed, what is more, he will not even be able to justify the possibility of such a pure assertion, without taking account of the empirical use of the understanding, and thereby fully re­ nouncing the pure and sense-free judgment.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
