Ch. I. Sec. I one does not sometimes think more of these marks but another time A 728/B 756 fewer of them. Thus in the concept ofg old one person might think, be­ sides its weight, color, and ductility, its property of not rusting, while another might know nothing about this. One makes use of certain marks only as long as they are sufficient for making distinctions; new observations, however, take some away and add some, and therefore the concept never remains within secure boundaries. And in any case what would be the point of defining such a concept? -since when, e.g., water and its properties are under discussion, one will not stop at what is in­ tended by the word "water" but rather advance to experiments, and the word, with the few marks that are attached to it, is to constitute only a designation and not a concept of the thing; thus the putative definition is nothing other than the determination of the word. Second, strictly speaking no concept given priori can be defined, e.g., substance, cause, a right, equity, etc. For I can never be certain that the distinct represen­ tation of a (still confused) given concept has been exhaustively devel­ oped unless I know that it is adequate to the object. But since the concept of the latter, as it is given, can contain many obscure represen­ tations, which we pass by in our analysis though we always use them in application, the exhaustiveness of the analysis of my concept is always A729/B757 doubtful, and by many appropriate examples can only be made proba­ bly but never apodictically certain. Instead of the expression "defini­ tion" I would rather use that of exposition,a which is always cautious, and which the critic can accept as valid to a certain degree while yet re­ taining reservations about its exhaustiveness. Since therefore neither empirical concepts nor concepts given priori can be defined, there re­ a main none but arbitrarily thought ones for which one can attempt this trick. In such a case I can always define my concept: for I must know what I wanted to think, since I deliberately made it up, and it was not given to me either through the nature of the understanding or through experience; but I cannot say that I have thereby defined a true object.9 For if the concept depends upon empirical conditions, e.g., a chro­ nometer,b,IO then the object and its possibility are not given through this arbitrary concept; from the concept I do not even know whether it has an object, and my explanationc could better be called a declaration (of my project) than a definition of an object. Thus there remain no other concepts that are fit for being defined than those containing an arbi­ trary synthesis which can be constructed priori, and thus only mathe­ a matics has definitions. For the object that it thinks it also exhibits a A 730/ B 758 priori in intuition, and this can surely contain neither more nor less than a Exposition Schifsuf hr b , Erkliirung 638 The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use the concept, since through the explanationa of the concept the object is originally given, i.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
