On the principles of a transcendental deduction tire power of cognition to them and for bringing about experience, which contains two very heterogeneous elements, namely a matter for cognition from the senses and a certain fonn for ordering it from the inner source of pure intuiting and thinking, which, on the occasion of the former, are first brought into use and bring forth concepts. Such a tracing of the first endeavors of our power of cognition to ascend from individual perceptions to general concepts is without doubt of great B 119 utility, and the famous Locke is to be thanked for having first opened the way for this. Yet a deduction of the pure a priori concepts can never be achieved in this way; it does not lie down this path at all, for in regard to their future use, which should be entirely independent of experience, an entirely different birth certificate than that of an ancestry from experiences must be produced. I will therefore call this attempted physiological derivation,16 which cannot properly be called a deduction A 87 at all because it concerns a quaestio jacti,a the explanation of the possession of a pure cognition. It is therefore clear that only a transcendental and never an empirical deduction of them can be given, and that in regard to pure a priori concepts empirical deductions are nothing but idle attempts, which can occupy only those who have not grasped the entirely distinctive nature of these cognitions.
 
 But now even if the sole manner of a possible deduction of pure a pri­ ori cognition is conceded, namely that which takes the transcendental path, it is still not obvious that it is unavoidably necessary. We have above traced the concepts of space and time to their sources by means of a transcendental deduction, and explained and determined their a pri- B 120 ori objective validity. Geometry nevertheless follows its secure course through strictly a priori cognitions without having to beg philosophy for any certification of the pure and lawful pedigree of its fundamental concept of space. Yet the use of theb concept in this science concerns only the external world of the senses, of which space is the pure form of its intuition, and in which therefore all geometrical cognition is immediately evident because it is grounded on intuition a priori, and the objects are given through the cognition itself a priori in intuition (as far as their A88 form is concerned). With the pure concepts of the understanding, however, there first arises the unavoidable need to search for the tran­ scendental deduction not only of them but also of space, for since they speak of objects not through predicates of intuition and sensibility but through those of pure a priori thinking, they relate to objects generally without any conditions of sensibility; and since they are not grounded in experience and cannot exhibit any objectC in a priori intuition on which a As in the first edition; the second, declining quaestio, prints quaestionem.
 
 b The first edition here reads "dieses" instead of the second's "des." , Object 221 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
