Psychologia rationalis is about understanding the "nature and essence" of the soul, especially how the mind works.

You can also look at Baumgarten’s Metaphysica, sections 504-518, for more on this.

Kant thought a lot about antinomies—these are contradictions that happen when you try to reason about certain big ideas. He started noticing these in 1769, and they show up a lot in his early work on logic and reasoning between 1775 and 1777. He kept thinking about these contradictions in the 1780s, with many notes and reflections during that time.

Baumgarten says a world is a series or group of actual things that don't overlap. Every world has parts that are separate but connected to make a whole.

These ideas come from Wolff’s cosmology, which you can check in the next note.

Baumgarten explains that parts of the world are connected by either time or space, or both. He looks at these connections in four ways: by space and time, by cause and effect, as actual parts, and as possible parts that form a whole. He ends by saying either there is no world or it must be made of many parts that form a unity. This means if you have all the parts, the whole must exist too. But this unity is only "hypothetical," not absolute.

A "progress to infinity" means a series of things where each causes the next, going on forever.

Baumgarten thinks the world must be made of simple parts called monads, similar to what Leibniz said in his Monadology.

He also argues, probably thinking about Spinoza, that the world isn’t one single substance, its parts aren’t just accidents, and an infinite substance isn’t unique.

Baumgarten points out that both the parts of the world and the world itself could be accidental or chance. If we say the world has to exist necessarily, then its parts would also have to exist necessarily, which would mean the parts are infinite. But that can’t be true because parts can’t be infinite.

There are more notes from Kant between 1769 and the 1770s where he keeps thinking about these ideas.
