Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II preceding state, from which the representation follows in accordance with a rule, I represent something as an occurrence, or as something that happens, i.e., I cognize an object that I must place in time in a de­ terminate position, which, after the preceding state, cannot be other­ wise assigned to it. Thus if I perceive that something happens, then the first thing contained in this representation is that something precedes, for it is just in relationa to this that the appearance acquires its tempo­ ral relation, that, namely, of existing after a preceding time in which it did not. But it can only acquire its determinate temporal position in this relation through something being presupposed in the preceding state on which it always follows, i.e., follows in accordance with a rule: from which it results, first, that I cannot reverse the series and place that which happens prior to that which it follows; and, second, that if the B 244 state that precedes is posited, than this determinate occurrence in­ evitably and necessarily follows. Thereby does it come about that there is an order among our representations, in which the present one (insoA 199 far as it has come to be) points to some preceding state as a correlate, to be sure still undetermined, of this event that is given, which is, how­ ever, determinately related to the latter, as its consequence, and neces­ sarily connected with it in the temporal series.
 
 Now if it is a necessary law of our sensibility, thus a formal condi­ tion of all perceptions, that the preceding time necessarily determines the following time (in that I cannot arrive at the following time except by passing through the preceding one), then it is also an indispensable law of the empirical representation of the temporal series that the appearances of the past time determine every existence in the following time, and that these, as occurrences, do not take place except insofar as the former determine their existence in time, i.e., establish it in accor­ dance with a rule. For only in the appearances can we empirically cognize this continuity in the connectionb of times.
 
 Understanding belongs to all experience and its possibility, and the first thing that it does for this is not to make the representation of the objects distinct, but rather to make the representation of an object posB 245 sible at all. Now this happens through its conferring temporal order on the appearances and their existence by assigning to each of these, as a consequence, a place in time determined priori in regard to the pre­ a ceding appearances, without which it would not agree with time itself, A200 which determines the position of all its parts priori. Now this deter­ a mination of position cannot be borrowed from the relation of the ap­ pearances to absolute time (for that is not an object of perception), but, conversely, the appearances themselves must determine their positions a Beziehung Zusammenhange b 310 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
