Now every sensation has a degree or magnitude, through which it can more or less fill the same time, i.e., the inner sense in regard to the same representation of an object, until it ceases in noth­ ingness ( negatio). Hence there is a relationb and connection be= 0 = tween, or rather a transition from reality to negation, that makes every BI83 reality representable as a quantum, and the schema of a reality, as the quantity of something insofar as it fills time, is just this continuous and uniform generation of that quantity in time, as one descends in time from the sensation that has a certain degree to its disappearance or gradually ascends from negation to its magnitude.
 
 The schema of substance is the persistence of the real in time, i.e., the A 144 representation of the real as a substratum of empirical time-determination in general, which therefore endures while everything else changes.
 
 (Time itself does not elapse, but the existence of that which is changeable elapses in it. To time, therefore, which is itself unchangeable and lasting, there corresponds in appearance that which is unchangeable in existence, i.e., substance, and in it alone can the succession and simultaneity of appearances be determined in regard to time.) The schema of the cause and of the causalityc of a thing in general is the real upon which, whenever it is posited, something else always fol­ lows. It therefore consists in the succession of the manifold insofar as it is subject to a rule.
 
 The schema of community (reciprocity), or of the reciprocal causal­ ity of substances with regard to their accidents, is the simultaneity of the determinations of the one with those of the other, in accordance B 184 with a general rule.
 
 The schema of possibility is the agreement of the synthesis of various representations with the conditions of time in general (e.g., since op­ posites cannot exist in one thing at the same time, they can only exist one after another), thus the determination of the representation of a thing to some time.
 
 The schema of actualityd is existence at a determinate time. A 145 The schema of necessity ise the existence of an object at all times.54 No w one sees from all this that the schema of each category contains and makes representable: in the case of magnitude, the generation (syn­ thesis) of time itself, in the successive apprehension of an object; in the case of the schema of quality, the synthesis of sensation (perception) with the representation of time, or the filling of time; in the case of the Sachheit a Verhiiltnis b , der Ursache und der Causalitiit Wirklichkeit d , "is" added in the second edition.
 
 275 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
