Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III very object of my concept exists. Even if I think in a thing every reality except one, then the missing reality does not get added when I say the thing exists, but it exists encumbered with just the same defect as I have thought in it; otherwise something other than what I thought would exist. Now if I think of a being as the highest reality (without defect), the question still remains whether it exists or not. For although noth­ ing at all is missing in my concept of the possible real content of a thing in general, something is still missing in the relation to my entire state of thinking, namely that the cognition of this objece should also be possible a posteriori. And here the cause of the predominant difficulty shows itself. If the issue were an object of sense, then I could not con­ fuse the existence of the thing with the mere concept of the thing. For through its concept, the object would be thought only as in agreement with the universal conditions of a possible empirical cognition in gen­ eral, but through its existence it would be thought as contained in the A601 / B629 context of the entirety of experience; thus through connection with the content of the entire experience the concept of the object is not in the least increased, but our thinking receives more through it, namely a possible perception. If, on the contrary, we tried to think existence through the pure category alone, then it is no wonder that we cannot assign any mark distinguishing it from mere possibility.
 
 Thus whatever and however much our concept of an object may con­ tain, we have to go out beyond it in order to provide it with existence.
 
 With objects of sense this happens through the connection with some perception of mine in accordance with empirical laws; but for objects b of pure thinking there is no means whatever for cognizing their exis­ tence, because it would have to be cognized entirely a priori, but our consciousness of all existence (whether immediately through perception or through inferences connecting something with perception) belongs entirely and without exception to the unity of experience, and though an existence outside this field cannot be declared absolutely impossible, it is a presupposition that we cannot justify through anything.
 
 The concept of a highest being is a very useful idea in many respects; but just because it is merely an idea, it is entirely incapable all by itself A602/B630 of extending our cognition in regard to what exists. It is not even able to do so much as to instruct us in regard to the possibility of anything more. The analytic mark of possibility, which consists in the fact that mere positingsC (realities) do not generate a contradiction, of course, cannot be denied of this concept; since,d however, the connection of all a Object Objecte b , Positionen d do; the first edition reads weil (because).
 
 568 Section V.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
