Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III tain to or concern the things themselves, because otherwise a contradic­ tion would occur; hence neither of these two principles is objective, but they can in any case be only subjective principleso of reason, namely, on the one side, for everything given as existing to seek something that is necessary, i.e., never to stop anywhere except with an priori complete a explanation, but on the other side also never to hope for this completion, i.e., never to assume anything empirical as unconditioned, thereby ex­ empting oneself from its further derivation. In such a significance both principles can very well coexist with one another, as merely heuristic and regulative, taking care of nothing but the formal interest of reason. For the one says that you should philosophize about nature as if there were a necessarily first ground for everything belonging to existence, solely in order to bring systematic unity into your cognition by inquiring after such an idea, namely an imagined first ground; but the other warns you A6I7/B645 not to assume any single determination dealing with the existence of things as such a first ground, i.e., as absolutely necessary, but always to hold the way open to further derivation and hence always to treat it as still conditioned. But if everything perceived in things by usb has to be considered as necessarily conditioned, then no thing (which may be given empirically) can be regarded as absolutely necessary.
 
 From this, however, it follows that you would have to assume the ab­ solutely necessary being as outside the world, because it is supposed to serve only as a principle' of the greatest possible unity of appear­ ances, as their supreme ground; and you can never reach it within the world, because the second rule bids you at every time to regard all em­ pirical causes of unity as derivative.
 
 The philosophers of antiquity regardd every form of nature as con­ tingent, but the matter, in accordance with the judgment of common reason, as original and necessary. But if they had considered the matter not as a substratum respective to appearances but in itself as to its ex­ istence, then the idea of absolute necessity would have disappeared at once. For there is nothing that binds reason absolutely to this existence; on the contrary, it can, at any time and without conflict, give such a thing up in thoughts; but it is in thoughts alone that absolute necessity A6IS/B646 lies. Hence a certain regulative principlee must be the ground of this persuasion. In fact extension and impenetrability (which together con­ stitute the concept of matter) is also the highest empirical principle! of " Principien b von uns; the first edition reads "vor uns" (before us).
 
 , Princip d The first edition reads "regarded." , Princip f Principium 576 Section V.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
