Part I. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> relateda to something external that could be called priori objective.
 
 a b<For one cannot derive synthetic priori propositions from any such a representation, as one can from intuition in space (§ 3). Strictly speak­ ing, therefore, ideality does not pertain to them, although they coincide with the representation of space in belonging only to the subjective constitution of the kind of sense, e.g., of sight, hearing, and feeling, through the sensations of colors, sounds, and warmth, which, however, since they are merely sensations and not intuitions, do not in them­ selves allow any objectC to be cognized, least of all priori.> a B45 The aim of this remark is only to prevent one from thinking of illustrating the asserted ideality of space with completely inadequate exam­ ples, since things like colors, taste, etc., are correctly considered not as qualities of things but as mere alterations of our subject, which can even be different in different people. For in this case that which is originally itself only appearance, e.g., a rose, counts in an empirical sense as a A 30 thing in itself, which yet can appear different to every eye in regard to color. The transcendental concept of appearances in space, on the con­ trary, is a critical reminder that absolutely nothing that is intuited in space is a thing in itself, and that space is not a form that is proper to anything in itself, but rather that objects in themselves are not known to us at all, and that what we call outer objects are nothing other than mere representations of our sensibility, whose form is space, but whose true correlate, i.e., the thing in itself, is not and cannot be cognized through them, but is also never asked after in experience.
 
 B46 The Transcendental Aesthetic Second Section On time.
 
 <§ 4 Metaphysical exposition of the concept of time.> Time is <I» not an empirical concept that is somehow drawn from an experience. For simultaneity or succession would not themselves come into perception if the representation of time did not ground them pri­ a ori. Only under its presupposition can one represent that several things exist at one and the same time (simultaneously) or in different times (successively) .
 
 A 3 I 2) Time is a necessary representation that grounds all intuitions. In regard to appearances in general one cannot remove time, though one bezogene a In the first edition, the remainder of this paragraph reads differently; see A28-9 above.
 
 b , Object 178 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
