I have to think about a being that has everything real about it, which means it has all conditions, as something that is completely unconditioned. Because of this, I see it as something that absolutely must exist. But from this, I can’t say that a limited being, which doesn’t have the highest reality, goes against this absolute necessity. Even if I don’t find the unconditioned part in the idea of a limited being, it doesn't mean that its existence has to depend on something else. It’s like saying if a certain condition isn’t there, then the thing itself isn’t there — that’s not necessarily true. We can still think of all limited beings as absolutely necessary, even if we can’t prove their necessity from their general idea.

Looking at it this way, this argument doesn’t actually give us any clear idea of what a necessary being’s properties are, and it basically doesn’t achieve much.

Still, this argument is important and should be respected, even though it doesn’t fully explain everything. Imagine there were rules that made sense in our minds but didn’t really apply to us because there wasn’t a highest being to make those rules matter. Then we would still have to follow these ideas because, even if they aren’t perfect, they are the best we have according to our reason. Choosing to follow them would help us decide when we’re unsure. In fact, reason couldn’t justify itself if it didn’t follow these ideas when we are pushed by important reasons, even if we don’t fully understand.

This argument is actually deep because it’s based on the fact that things that happen by chance are not enough by themselves. But it’s also simple and easy to understand once you think about it. We see things change, come into being, and disappear. So, these things or their states must have a cause. But then you can ask about the cause of every cause. Where else could the ultimate cause be except in the highest possible being? This being contains everything needed to cause things, and we can easily think of it as having perfect qualities. We then call this highest cause absolutely necessary because it is absolutely needed.
