It focused on using common sense instead of complicated arguments. It also spread progressive ideas that could be used in real life, rather than getting into deep, abstract questions, which it often looked down on.

The word "critique" or "criticism" was first taken by Kant from Henry Home, Lord Kames, who wrote about judging beauty or taste. Kant first used the word in a lecture announcement in 1765-66. By 1769, Kant explained that "critique" means a science that doesn't create new things but judges them based on perfect rules. For example, metaphysics is a science that judges knowledge based on pure reason.

You can compare this idea with another of Kant's writings from 1776-78.

There are also related notes from Kant's works during 1776-78 that give more details.

Jean Terrasson wrote a book in 1762 about philosophy and its influence on the mind and morals. The original French edition had some letters from famous people included. Kant also wrote about the length and style of his work in some of his notes from 1776-78.

The Cape of Good Hope is the southernmost point in Africa.

In a letter from 1787, Kant mentioned a proof from Euclid’s Elements about geometry. Diogenes Laertius said that Thales learned geometry from the Egyptians and also taught them how to measure pyramid heights by using their shadows.

Galileo Galilei described experiments about acceleration in his works from the early 1600s.

Evangelista Torricelli, who followed Galileo, invented the barometer in 1643. His work was published after he died.

Georg Ernst Stahl did experiments with burning and metal melting, leading to the phlogiston theory in 1702. Antoine Lavoisier made discoveries that eventually replaced this theory, but Kant didn’t know about them until later. Many chemists still believed in the phlogiston theory for a long time. Kant kept up with changes in chemistry and in 1796 saw experiments supporting Lavoisier’s ideas. Kant accepted Lavoisier’s oxidation theory in his later writings.

All changes in position happen because either the object moves, the observer moves, or both move in different ways at the same time.
