Criticism of all ideas about God that we come up with just by thinking, which nature only shows us as a hidden connection, and trying to explain them by starting from one basic power, is tricky. Reason can also accept that all powers might be completely different, and that trying to explain them all as coming from one system might not really match nature. If reason did this, it would go against its job because it would aim for an idea that goes against how nature actually works.

Also, we can’t say that reason figured out this unity from nature itself based on its own rules. The rule of reason to look for unity is necessary because without it, we wouldn’t have reason at all. Without reason, we couldn’t understand things clearly or find real truth in what we see. So, when it comes to truth, we have to assume that nature is organized in a systematic way that is real and necessary.

We can also see this hidden assumption in the ideas of philosophers, even if they didn’t always realize or admit it. They believe that even though there are lots of different things, they don’t stop species from being the same. Different species should be seen as parts of fewer groups, and those groups are parts of even bigger groups. So, there must be a kind of system where all ideas about things come from more general ideas. This is an old rule or logical idea! Without it, reason wouldn’t work because we can only understand specific things if we know the general rules they follow.

Philosophers also assume this agreement is found in nature itself, shown in the rule that says we shouldn’t create more causes or beginnings than necessary. This means nature gives us the material to find unity in reason. Even though there are many different things, we shouldn’t stop ourselves from guessing that behind them is one basic set of properties. From these, all the variety comes by adding different details. This idea of unity, even though it’s just a concept, has been chased after in every age, but often people have had to be careful not to believe in it too much.
