Pt. II. Div. II. Book I go into any literary investigation here, in order to make out the sense A 314 which the sublime philosopher combined with his word. I note only that when we compare the thoughts that an author expresses about a subject, in ordinary speech as well as in writings, it is not at all unusual to find that we understand him even better than he understood himself, since he may not have determined his concept sufficiently and hence sometimes spoke, or even thought, contrary to his own intention.
 
 Plato noted very well that our power of cognition feels a far higher need than that of merely spelling out appearances according to a synB 371 thetic unity in order to be able to read them as experience, and that our reason naturally exalts itself to cognitions that go much too far for any object that experience can give ever to be congruent, but that none­ theless have their reality and are by no means merely figments of the brain.
 
 Plato found his ideas preeminently in everything that is practical,* i.e.
 
 A 3 15 in what rests on freedom, which for its part stands under cognitions that are a proper product of reason. Whoever would draw the concepts of virtue from experience, whoever would make what can at best serve as an example for imperfect illustration into a model for a source of cog­ nition (as many have actually done), would make of virtue an ambigu­ ous non-entity, changeable with time and circumstances, useless for any sort of rule. On the contrary, we are all aware that when someone is B 372 represented as a model of virtue, we always have the true original in our own mind alone, with which we compare this alleged model and ac­ cording to which alone we estimate it. But it is this that is the idea of virtue, in regard to which all possible objects of experience do service as examples (proofs of the feasibility, to a certain degree, of what the con­ cept of reason requires), but never as archetypes. That no human being will ever act adequately to what the pure idea ofv irtue contains does not prove in the least that there is something chimerical in this thought.
 
 For it is only by means of this idea that any judgment of moral worth or unworth is possible; and so it necessarily lies at the ground of every approach to moral perfection, even though the obstacles in human na­ ture, as yet to be determined as to their degree, may hold us at a dis­ tance from it.
 
 A 3 14/ B 371 * Of course he also extended his concept to speculative cognitions, whenever they were pure and given wholly priori, and even to mathematics, even a though mathematical cognitions have their object nowhere except in possible experience. Now I cannot follow him in this, just as little as I can in the mys­ tical deduction of these ideas or in the exaggerated way in which he hyposta­ tized them, as it were; although the lofty language that served him in this field is surely quite susceptible of a milder interpretation, and one that accords bet­ ter with the nature of things.
 
 396 Section 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
