Critique of all speculative theology The second mistake that arises from the misinterpretation of the in­ tended principlea of systematic unity is that of perverted reason (perversa ratio, VOTEQOV :1TQaTEQov rationis). b The idea of systematic unity should only serve as a regulative principle for seeking this unity in the combi­ nation of things in accordance with universal laws of nature, and to the extent that something of the sort is encountered in an empirical way, one should believe oneself to have approximated to completeness in its use, though one obviously will never reach it. Instead of this, one re­ verses the matter and begins by grounding things hypostatically on the actuality of a principled of purposive unity; because it is entirely in­ scrutable, the concept of such a highest intelligence is determined an­ thropomorphically, and then one imposes ends on nature forcibly and dictatorially, instead of seeking for them reasonably on the path of physical investigation, so that teleology, which ought to serve only to supplement the unity of nature in accordance with universal laws, not only works to do away with it, but even deprives reason of its end, A693/B72I namely proving the existence ofs uch an intelligent supreme cause from nature according to this end. For if one cannot presuppose the highest purposiveness in nature a priori, i.e., as belonging to the essence of nature, then how can one be assigned to seek it out and, following the ladder of purposiveness, to approach the highest perfection of an author of nature as a perfection which is absolutely necessary, hence cognizable a priori? The regulative principle' demands that systematic unity be presupposed absolutely as a unity of nature that is recognized not only empirically but also a priori, though still indeterminately, and hence as following from the essence of things. But if! antecedently make a highest ordering being the ground, then the unity of nature will in fact be done away with. For then this unity is entirely foreign and contingent in relation to the nature of things, and it cannot be cognized from the universal laws thereof. Hence arises a vicious circle in one's proof, where one presupposes what really ought to have been proved.
 
 To take the regulative principle! of the systematic unity of nature for a constitutive one, and to presuppose hypostatically, as a cause, what is only in the idea as a ground for the harmonious use of reason, is only to confuse reason. The investigation of nature takes its own course, fol- A694/ B 722 lowing only the chain of natural causes according to their universal laws in conformity to the idea of an author, to be sure, yet not to derive from that idea the purposiveness it is seeking everywhere, but Princip a perverse reason, later first of reason,,6 b , Princip d Princip , Princip f Princip 617 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
