Pt. II. Div. Bk. II. Ch. I ducea all thinking as belonging to consciousness. Meanwhile, however pure from the empirical (from impressions of sense) it may be, it still serves to distinguish two kinds of objects through the nature of our power of representation. I, as thinking, am an object of inner sense, and am called "soul." That which is an object of outer sense is called "body." Accordingly, the expression "I," as a thinking being, already signifies the object of a psychology that could be called the rational doctrine of the soul, if I do not seek to know anything about the soul beyond what, independently of all experience (which always determines me more closely and in concreto), can be inferred from this concept I insofar as it occurs in all thinking.
 
 Now the rational doctrine of the SOUP2 is really an undertaking of this kind; for if the least bit of anything empirical in my thinking, any particular perception of my inner state, were mixed among the grounds of cognition of this science, then it would no longer be a ra­ tional but rather an empirical doctrine of the soul. We have thus al­ ready before us a putative science, which is built on the single proposition I think; and we can, in accordance with the nature of a transcendental philosophy, quite appropriately investigate its ground or groundlessness. One should not be brought up short by the fact that I have an inner experience of this proposition, which expresses the per­ ception of oneself, and hence that the rational doctrine of the soul that is built on it is never pure but is grounded in part on an empirical prin­ ciple.b For this inner perception is nothing beyond the mere apper­ ception I think, which even makes all transcendental concepts possible, which say "I think substance, cause, etc."c For inner experience in gen­ eral and its possibility, or perception in general and its relationd to an­ other perception, without any particular distinction or empirical determination being given in it, cannot be regarded as empirical cog­ nition, but must be regarded as cognition of the empirical in general, and belongs to the investigation of the possibility of every experience, which is of course transcendental. The least objecte of perception (e.g., pleasure or displeasure), which might be added to the general repreauffihi ren a b Principium C Added in Kant's copy of the first edition: "The propositions of rational psychology all are grounded on the 'I am.' For if even time should be added to them, then it would be an ob­ ject of experience that they were treating of, and everything that would be produced through this would not have to reach any further than to this life." (E CLVIII, p. 48; 23:39) "[The] I, object and subject of thoughts, is identical, exists, [substance, reality], but as unity in itself . . . o f the subject in all its consciousness -these are purely identical propositions." (E CLIX, p. 48; 23:39) Verhdltnis d , Object 412 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
