The first of Priestley’s works to appear in German was his History of the Corruptions of Christianity in 1782. So, Kant probably learned about Priestley’s philosophical ideas from reviews when he was writing the Critique. But Kant had already mentioned Priestley in R 502 I (1776-78), calling him an empiricist like Locke.

Here, Kant first refers to Hobbes’s description of the state of nature in Leviathan, book I, chapter XIII, and also to Hobbes’s second "Fundamental Law of Nature" in chapter XIV. Then, Kant hints at his own version of the "Universal Principle of Right," which he explains later in the Metaphysics of Morals.

You can compare this with a long note in R 5645 (around 1780).

Hume said that the reason we believe one thing causes another is because of "Custom or Habit." Kant probably knew this from Hume’s book An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding, which was translated into German in 1755.

For some thoughts on what’s needed for a hypothesis, see R 5560 and R 5570 (both around 1778-81).

Here, Kant might be joking about Swedenborgian spiritualism in his book Dreams of a Spirit-Seer (1766), and also criticizing Leibniz’s idea of substances called monads.

Kant repeats his criticism of the idea that because the idea of the self is simple, the self itself must be simple. This is called the second "Paralogism of Pure Reason."

See Kant’s own proof in The New Elucidation of the First Principles of Metaphysical Cognition.

Kant explains modus ponens in his Heschel Logic as reasoning from a first statement (antecedent) to a second one (consequence). This matches the modern idea that if p is true and p implies q, then q must be true. But Kant thinks it also means that for p to be true, all its consequences must be true, which is not how modern logic sees it.

Kant’s definition of modus tollens is not complete, but it matches the usual idea: if p implies q and q is not true, then p is not true. He calls this reasoning from the denial of the consequence to the denial of the first statement in Heschel Logic.

Near the end of the book, Kant says reason can have rules for practical use but not for theoretical use. This might seem like an afterthought, but in the second edition’s preface, he says this idea was a main goal of his whole work.
