All ignorance is either that of thingsa or of the determination and boundaries of my cognition. Now if the igno­ rance is contingent, then in the first case it must drive me to investigate the things (objects) dogmatically, in the second case to investigate the boundaries of my possible cognition critically. But that my ignorance is absolutely necessary and hence absolves me from all further investi­ gation can never be made out empirically, from observation, but only critically, by getting to the bottom Ofb the primary sources of our cog­ nition. Thus the determination of the boundaries of our reason can only take place in accordance with a priori grounds; its limitation, how­ ever, which is a merely indeterminate cognition of an ignorance that is never completely to be lifted, can also be cognized a posteriori, through that which always remains to be known even with all of our knowledge.
 
 The former cognition of ignorance, which is possible only by means of the critique of reason itself, is thus science, the latter is nothing but perception, about which one cannot say how far the inference from it A 7591 B 787 might reach. If I represent the surface of the earth (in accordance with sensible appearancey as a plate, I cannot know how far it extends. But experience teaches me this: that wherever I go, I always see a space around me in which I could proceed farther; thus I cognize the limits of my actual knowledge of the earthd at any time, but not the boundaries of all possible description of the earth. But if I have gotten as far as knowing that the earth is a sphere and its surface the surface of a sphere, then from a small part of the latter, e.g., from the magnitude of one degree, I can cognize its diameter and, by means of this, the complete boundary, i.e., surface of the earth, determinately and in accordance with a priori principles;' and although I am ignorant in regard to the objects that this surface might contain, I am not ignorant in regard to the magnitude and limits of the domain that contains them.
 
 The sum total of all possible objects for our cognition seems to us to be a flat surface, which has its apparent horizon, namely that which comprehends its entire domain and which is called by us the rational concept of unconditioned totality. It is impossible to attain this empir­ ically, and all attempts to determine it a priori in accordance with a certain principle! have been in vain. Yet all questions of our pure reason A 7601 B 788 pertain to that which might lie outside this horizon or in any case at least on its borderline.
 
 a Sachen b Erg;riindung C Schein d Erdkunde (i.e., geography) , Principien f Princip 653 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
