Critical decision of the cosmological conflict Zeno the elearic, a subtle dialectician, was already severely censured by Plato as a wanton sophist who, to show his art, would seek to prove some proposition through plausible arguments and then immediately to overthrow the same proposition through other arguments just as strong.73 He asserted that God (presumably for him this was nothing but the world) is neither finite nor infinite, is neither in motion nor at rest, and is neither like nor unlike any other thing. To those who judged him, it appeared that he wanted entirely to deny two mutually contra­ dictory propositions, which is absurd. But I do not find that this charge can be justly lodged against him. I will throw more light on the first of these propositions presently. As to the others, if by the word God he understood the universe, then he must of course say that neither is it persistingly present in its place (at rest) nor does it alter its place (move), because all places are only in the universe, hence this universe itself is in no place. If the world-whole includes in itself everything existing, then it is neither like nor unlike any other thing, because there is no other thing outside it, with which it might be compared. If two mutu- B 531 ally opposed judgments presuppose an inadmissible condition, then de- A 503 spite their conflict (which is, however, not a real contradiction) both of them collapse, because the condition collapses under which alone either of them would be valid.
 
 If someone said that every body either smells good or smells not good, then there is a third possibility, namely that a body has no smell (aroma) at all, and thus both conflicting propositions can be false. If I say the body is either good-smelling or not good-smelling (vel suave­ olens vel non suaveolens), then both judgments are contradictorily op­ posed, and only the first is false, but its contradictory opposite, namely that some bodies are not good-smelling, includes also those bodies that have no smell at all. In the previous opposition (per disparata)a the contingent condition of the concept of body (of smell) remained in the case of the conflicting judgment, and hence it was not ruled outb by it; hence the latter judgment was not the contradictory opposite of the former.
 
 Accordingly, if I say that as regards space either the world is infinite or it is not infinite (non est infinitus), then if the first proposition is false, its contradictory opposite, "the world is not infinite," must be true.
 
 Through it I would rule out only an infinite world, without positing another one, namely a finite one. But if it is said that the world is either A 504/ B 532 infinite or finite (not-infinite), then both propositions could be false.
 
 For then I regard the world as determined in itself regarding its magnitude, since in the opposition I not only rule out its infinitude, and a through different things b aufgehoben 517 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
