Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II. <B> and that the dissolution (analysis) that seems to be its opposite, in fact always presupposes it; for where the understanding has not previously combined anything, neither can it dissolve anything, for only through it can something have been given to the power of representation as combined.
 
 But in addition to the concept of the manifold and of its synthesis, the concept of combination also carries with it the concept of the unity of the manifold. Combination is the representation of the synthetic unity B I3 1 of the manifold. * The representation of this unity cannot, therefore, arise from the combination; rather, by being added to the representa­ tion of the manifold, it first makes the concept of combination possi­ ble.33 This unity, which precedes all concepts of combination priori, is (§ a not the former category of unity 10); for all categories are grounded on logical functions in judgments, but in these combination, thus the unity of given concepts, is already thought. The category therefore al­ ready presupposes combination. We must therefore seek this unity (as qualitative, § 12) someplace higher, namely in that which itself contains the ground of the unity of different concepts in judgments, and hence of the possibility of the understanding, even in its logical use.
 
 § 1 6 .
 
 On the original-synthetic unity of apperception.
 
 The I think must be able to accompany all my representations; for B 132 otherwise something would be represented in me that could not be thought at all, which is as much as to say that the representation would either be impossible or else at least would be nothing for me. That rep­ resentation that can be given prior to all thinking is called intuition.
 
 Thus all manifold of intuition has a necessary relation to the I think in the same subject in which this manifold is to be encountered. But this representation is an acta of spontaneity, i.e., it cannot be regarded as belonging to sensibility. I call it the pure apperception, in order to dis­ tinguish it from the empirical one, or also the original apperception, since it is that self-consciousness which, because it produces the repre­ sentation I think, which must be able to accompany all others and B 131 * Whether the representations themselves are identical, and whether therefore one could be thought through the other analytically, does not come into con­ sideration here. The consciousness of the one, as far as the manifold is con­ cerned, is still always to be distinguished from the consciousness of the other, and it is only the synthesis of this (possible) consciousness that is at issue here.
 
 a Actus 246 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
