Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. III <B> they therefore seem to allow an application extended beyond all objects of the senses. But for their part they are in turn nothing other than forms of thought, which contain merely the logical capacity a for uniB 306 fying the manifold given in intuition in a consciousness a priori; thus if one takes away from them the only sensible intuition possible for us, they have even less significance than those pure sensible forms, through which at least an objectb is given, whereas a kind of combination of the manifold that is proper to our understanding signifies nothing at all if that intuition in which alone the manifold can be given is not added to g i -Nevertheless, if we call certain objects, as appearances, beings of sense (pbaenomena), because we distinguish the way in which we intuit them from their constitution in itself, then it already follows from our concept that to these we as it were oppose, as objects thought merely through the understanding, either other objects conceived in accor­ dance with the latter constitution, even though we do not intuit it in them, or else other possible things, which are not objects c of our senses at all, and call these beings of understanding (noumena). Now the ques­ tion arises: Whether our pure concepts of understanding do not have significance in regard to the latter, and whether they could be a kind of cognition of them?
 
 But right at the outset here there is an ambiguity, which can occasion great misunderstanding: Since the understanding, when it calls an ob­ ject in a relation mere phenomenon, d simultaneously makes for itself, beyond this relation, another representation of an object in itself and B 307 hence also represents itself as being able to make concepts of such an object, and since the understanding offers nothing other than the cate­ gories through which the object in this lattt::£sense must at least be able to be thought, it is thereby misled into taking the entirely.undeter­ mined concept of a being of understanding, as a somethiug.j,n general outside of our sensibility, for a determinate concept of a being that we could cognize through the understanding in some way.
 
 If by a noumenon we understand a thing insofar as it is not an ob­ e ject! of our sensible intuition, because we abstract from the manner of our intuition of it, then this is a noumenon in the negative sense.g But if we understand by that an objecth of a non-sensible intuition, a Vermogen Object b , Objecte d Not in roman type.
 
 , The word "noumenon" is not set in roman type here or in the remainder of this and the following paragraph.
 
 f Object Verstande g Object h 360 Phenomena and Noumena <B> then we assume a special kind of intuition, namely intellectual intuition, which, however, is not our own, and the possibility of which we cannot understand, and this would be the noumenon in a positive sense.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
