Pt. II. Transcendental Logic tradicts itself. But these criteria concern only the form of truth, i.e., of thinking in general, and are to that extent entirely correct but not suf­ ficient. For although a cognition may be in complete accord with logi­ cal form, i.e., not contradict itself, yet it can still always contradict the object. The merely logical criterion of truth, namely the agreement of a cognition with the general and formal laws of understanding and rea­ son, is therefore certainly the conditio sine qua non and thus the negative A60 condition of all truth; further, however, logic cannot go, and the error that concerns not form but content cannot be discovered by any touch­ stone of logic.4 General logic analyzes the entire formal business of the understand­ ing and reason into its elements, and presents these as principlesa of all logical assessmentb of our cognition. This part of logic can therefore be called an analytic, and is on that very account at least the negative touchstone of truth, since one must before all else examine and evalu­ ate by means of these rules the form of all cognition before investigatB8S ing its content in order to find out whether with regard to the object it contains positive truth. But since the mere form of cognition, however well it may agree with logical laws, is far from sufficing to constitute the material (objective) truth of the cognition, nobody can dare to judge of objects and to assert anything about them merely with logic without having drawn on antecedently well-founded information about them from outside oflogic, in order subsequently merely to investigate its use and connection in a coherent whole according to logical laws, or, bet­ ter, solely to examine them according to such laws. Nevertheless there is something so seductive in the possession of an apparent art for giving all of our cognitions the form of understanding, even though with reA6r gard to their content one may yet be very empty and poor, that this gen­ eral logic, which is merely a canon for judging,c has been used as if it were an organon for the actual production of at least the semblance of objective assertions, and thus in fact it has thereby been misused. Now general logic, as a putative organon, is called dialectic.
 
 As different as the significance of the employment of this designation of a science or art among the ancients may have been, one can still infer B 86 from their actual use of it that among them it was nothing other than the logic of illusion a sophistical art for giving to its ignorance, in­ deed even to its intentional tricks, the air of truth, by imitating the method of thoroughness, which logic prescribes in general, and using its topics for the embellishment of every empty pretension. Now one can take it as a certain and useful warning that general logic, considPrincipien N b Beurtheilung , Beurtheilung 198 Introduction ered as an organon, is always a logic of illusion, i.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
