As before, Kant infers from these two arguments that (3) "The concept of space is thus a pure intuition," an intuition because it is singular and pure because it is not "compounded from sensations" but presupposed by all "outer sensation" or experience of objects as distinct from ourselves. Here Kant skips an argument that space is a continuous quantity, though he will also assume that in the Critique, and instead inserts the argument from 1768 about incongruent counterparts, using it now to show that since features of di­ rectionality such as a right- and left-handedness are not inferable from the concepts of objects they must be "apprehended by a certain pure in­ tuition." (This argument will be omitted from the Critique.) Now, as in the case of time, Kant infers from these results that" Space is not something objective and real, nor is it a substance, nor an accident, nor a relation; it is rather, subjective and ideal; it issues from the nature of the mind." Again, he infers this from the prior arguments that it is "the scheme . . .
 
 for coordinating everything that it senses externally" and also from the two additional claims, the metaphysical claim made against "the English" that the idea of "an absolute and boundless receptacle of possi­ ble things is absurd" and the epistemological argument made against Leibniz that conceiving of the propositions of geometry, which are taken to describe space, as merely abstracted from an experience of relations among objects would "cast geometry down from the summit of cer­ tainty, and thrust it back into the rank of those sciences of which the principles are empirical." Finally, Kant again concludes that (5) even though "the concept of space as some objective and real being or property be imaginary, nonetheless, relatively to all sensible things whatever, it is not only a concept that is in the highest degree true, it is also the foundation of all truth in outer sensibility." This is as good a statement of the doc­ trine of transcendental idealism as we will find in the Critique itself, in­ sisting on both the subjectivity yet also universality and necessity of space as a form of representation.85 This account of space and time as the forms and principles of the sen­ sible world, as we have said, remains essentially unchanged in the Critique. In Section 4 of the dissertation, however, Kant gives an ac­ count of the "principle of the form of the intelligible world" that is still largely unchanged from his earliest work but will disappear from the Critique. The content of this section is basically just the Leibnizian ar­ gument that a multitude of substances can constitute a single world only in virtue of their common dependence on a single cause. This argument is based on the thoroughly Leibnizian premise that "the existence of each [necessary] substance is fully established without appealing to any dependence on anything else whatsoever,"86 and the further inference that contingent substances, the only kind which might therefore con43 Introduction stitute an interrelated whole, are characterized precisely by their de­ pendence on a cause, and therefore constitute a single world in virtue of their dependence on a common cause.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
