Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <A> call a rainbow a mere appearance in a sun-shower, but would call this rain the thing in itself, and this is correct, as long as we understand the latter concept in a merely physical sense, as that which in universal ex­ perience and all different positions relative to the senses is always de­ termined thus and not otherwise in intuition. But if we consider this A46 empirical object in general and, without turning to its agreement with every human sense, ask whether it (not the raindrops, since these, as ap­ pearances, are already empirical objects)" represents an object in itself, then the question of the relation of the representation to the object is transcendental, and not only these drops are mere appearances, but even their round form, indeed even the space through which they fall are nothing in themselves, but only mere modifications or foundationsb of our sensible intuition; the transcendental object,c however, remains unknown to us.
 
 The second important concern of our transcendental aesthetic is that it not merely earn some favor as a plausible hypothesis, but that it be as certain and indubitable as can ever be demanded of a theory that is to serve as an organon. In order to make this certainty fully convincing we B64 will choose a case in which its validity can become obvious.
 
 Thus, if it were to be supposed that space and time are in themselves objective and conditions of the possibility of things in themselves, then it would be shown, first, that there is a large number of priori apodic­ a tic and synthetic propositions about both, but especially about space, which we will therefore here investigate as our primary example. Since the propositions of geometry are cognized synthetically priori and a A47 with apodictic certainty, I ask: Whence do you take such propositions, and on what does our understanding rely in attaining to such absolutely necessary and universally valid truths?d There is no other way than through concepts or through intuitions, both of which, however, are given, as such, either priori or posteriori. The latter, namely empiri­ a a cal concepts, together with that on which they are grounded, empirical intuition, cannot yield any synthetic proposition except one that is also merely empirical, i.e., a proposition of experience; thus it can never contain necessity and absolute universality of the sort that is neverthe­ less characteristic of all propositions of geometry. Concerning the first and only means for attaining to such cognitions, however, namely through mere concepts or priori intuitions, it is clear that from mere a concepts no synthetic cognition but only merely analytic cognition can B6S be attained. Take the proposition that with two straight lines no space n Objecte b GrundJagen Object , The question mark replaces a period in the text.
 
 d 170 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
