Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II (whether as conditioned or as condition) is contingent, then every ex­ istence given to you is too small for your concept. For this existence compels you to look around for yet another existence on which this one is dependent.
 
 In all these cases, we have said that the world-idea is either too big for the empirical regress, hence for every possible concept of the un­ derstanding, or else too small for it. But why haven't we expressed our­ selves in just the opposite way, and said that in the first case the empirical concept is always too small for the idea, and in the second too big for it -thus, as it were, holding the empirical regress responsible?
 
 Why have we instead accused the cosmological idea of falling short or exceeding its end, namely possible experience? The reason was this. It is possible experience alone that can give our concepts reality; without it, every concept is only an idea, without truth and reference to an ob­ ject. Hence the possible empirical concept was the standard by which it had to be judged whether the idea is a mere idea and a thought-entity a or instead encounters its object within the world. For one says that one thing is too great or too small relative to another only when the former thing is assumed to exist for the sake of the latter, and hence has to be adapted to it. Among the conundrumsb of the ancient dialectical schools A490/B 518 was this question: If a ball does not pass through a hole, should one say that the ball is too big, or that the hole is too small? In this case, it is in­ different how you choose to express yourself; for you do not know which of the two is there for the sake of the other. By contrast, you will not say that the man is too tall for his clothing, but rather that the cloth­ ing is too short for the man.
 
 Thus we have been brought at least to the well-grounded suspicion that the cosmological ideas, and all the sophistical assertions about them that have come into conflict with one another, are perhaps grounded on an empty and merely imagined concept of the way the ob­ ject of these ideas is given to us; and this suspicion may already have put us on the right track for exposing the semblance that has so long mis­ led us.
 
 C Gedankending a b Spielwerke C In his copy of the first edition, Kant writes: "In the cosmological ideas, the first two propositions say too much for the opposition, the last two too little. The former say: 'Everything is either eternal in time or has a beginning,' while they should have said: 'or it is not eternal and exists as thing in itself in no time at all.' "In the latter too little is said. Hence both can be true: e.g., everything in the world is either dependent or independent (everything necessary). The former is true of phenomena, the latter of noumena outside the world." (E CLXX, pp. -50-1; 23:40-1) 510 Section VI.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
