Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II by observing, and, as happens in anthropology, by trying to investigate the moving causes of his actions physiologically.
 
 But if we consider the very same actions in relation to reason, not, to be sure, in relation to speculative reason, in order to explain them as regards their origin, but insofar as reason is the cause of producing them by themselves -in a word, if we compare them with reason in a practical respect -then we find a rule and order that is entirely other than the natural order. For perhaps everything that has happened in the course of nature, and on empirical grounds inevitably had to hap­ pen, nevertheless ought not to have happened. At times, however, we find, or at least believe we have found, that the ideas of reason have ac­ tually proved their causality in regard to the actions of human beings as appearances, and that therefore these actions have occurred a not through empirical causes, no, but because they were determined by grounds of reason.
 
 A55I/B 579 Suppose now that one could say reason has causality in regard to appearance; could reason's action then be called free even though in its empirical character (in the mode of sense) b it is all precisely determined and necessary? The empirical character is once again determined in the intelligible character (in the mode of thought)/ We are not acquainted with the latter, but it is indicated through appearances, which really give only the mode of sense (the empirical character) for immediate cogni­ tion.* Now the action, insofar as it is to be attributed to the mode of thought as its cause, nevertheless does not follow from it in accord with empirical laws, i.e., in such a way that it is preceded by the conditions of pure reason, but only their effects in the appearance of inner sense precede it. Pure reason, as a merely intelligible faculty, is not subject to the form of time, and hence not subject to the conditions of the tem­ poral sequence. The causality of reason in the intelligible character does not arise or start working at a certain time in producing an effect.
 
 A 552 I B 580 For then it would itself be subject to the natural law of appearances, to the extent that this law determines causal series in time, and its causalA 551 IB 579 * The real morality of actions (their merit and guilt), even that of our own con­ duct, therefore remains entirely hidden from us. Our imputations can be re­ ferred only to the empirical character. How much of it is to be ascribed to mere nature and innocent defects of temperament or to its happy constitution (merita Jortunae)d this no one can discover,' and hence no one can judge it with complete justice.
 
 a geschehen Sinnesart b , DenkungSa17 to the merit of fortune d , ergrunden 542 Section IX.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
