Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. I. Ch. II to ground their synthesis prior to any experience, they not only arouse suspicion about the objective validity and limits of their use but also make the concept of space ambiguous by inclining us to use it beyond B 121 the conditions of sensible intuition, on which account a transcendental deduction of it was also needed above. Thus the reader must be con­ vinced of the unavoidable necessity of such a transcendental deduction before he has taken a single step in the field of pure reason; for he would otherwise proceed blindly, and after much wandering around would still have to return to the ignorance from which he had begun. But he must also clearly understand from the outset its inevitable difficulty, so that he will not complain of obscurity where the subject-matter itself is deeply veiled or become annoyed too soon over the removal of hinA89 drances, since we must either surrender completely all claims to insights of pure reason in its favorite field, namely that beyond the boundaries of all possible experience, or else perfect this critical investigation.
 
 In the case of the concepts of space and time, we were able above to make comprehensible with little effort how these, as priori cognitions, a must nevertheless necessarily relate to objects, and made possible a syn­ thetic cognition of them independent of all experience. For since an ob­ ject can appear to us only by means of such pure forms of sensibility, i.e., be an objecta of empirical intuition, space and time are thus pure B 122 intuitions that contain priori the conditions of the possibility of ob­ a jects as appearances, and the synthesis in them has objective validity.
 
 The categories of the understanding, on the contrary, do not repre­ sent to us the conditions under which objects are given in intuition at all, hence objects can indeed appear to us without necessarily having to be related to functions of the understanding, and therefore without the understanding containing their priori conditions. '7 Thus a difficulty is a revealed here that we did not encounter in the field of sensibility,.
 
 namely how subjective conditions of thinking should have objective A90 validity, i.e., yield conditions of the possibility of all cognition of objects; for appearances can certainly be given in intuition without functions of the understanding. I take, e.g., the concept of cause, which signifies a particular kind of synthesis, in which given something A something entirely different B is posited according to a rule.b It is not clear priori why appearances should contain anything of this sort (one a cannot adduce experiences for the proof, for the objective validity of this priori concept must be able to be demonstrated), and it is there­ a fore priori doubtful whether such a concept is not perhaps entirely a empty and finds no object anywhere among the appearances. For that a Object b Emended in Kant's copy of the first edition to "posited according to an a priori rule, i.e., necessarily" (E XLIX, p. 25; 23'46).
 
 222 Section 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
