Under each of these four groups, there are supposed to be three different choices: a judgment can be universal, particular, or singular; it can be affirmative, negative, or infinite; it can be categorical, hypothetical, or disjunctive; and it can be problematic, assertoric, or apodictic. 

Kant says that for these twelve types of judgments, there are twelve basic categories to understand the amount, quality, relationship, and possibility of things (A 70/B 95, A80/B 106). But people have debated whether Kant is right that there are exactly twelve kinds of judgments and twelve matching categories for thinking about things.

Even if Kant proves we have some ideas before experience, he goes further by saying all these ideas always and necessarily apply to the things we experience. He tries to prove this in the chapter called the "Transcendental Deduction of the Categories," which he says was the hardest part to write in the first edition of the Critique (A xvi). He rewrote almost all of it for the second edition (A 84-1301 B 116-69) after working on other books in between, like the Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics (1783) and Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science (1786).

In both editions of the Critique, but not in the other books, Kant focuses on the idea that our experience belongs to one single self. He calls this the "transcendental unity of apperception." This means that the parts of experience we get through our senses are combined in a way that lets us think about objects using the categories. 

The categories apply to objects not because the objects make the categories possible, but because the categories are needed to represent any possible object in experience. But what exactly the unity of apperception means, and how it connects to how we think about objects, is unclear and still debated by philosophers even after more than 200 years.

Even if the transcendental deduction proves that the categories apply to all possible experiences, or all the different ways things can appear to us, it only does this in a general way. It doesn’t explain exactly how each category must apply to the objects we experience or prove that all categories must be used for those objects.
