Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II finity, and here the distinction between the infinite and a progress of in­ determinate length (progressus in indefinitum) would be an empty sub­ tlety. For although when it is said, "Draw a line" it obviously sounds more correct to add in indefinitum than if it were said in infinitum, be­ cause the first means a no more than "Extend it as far as you want," but the second meansb "You ought never to stop extending it" (which is not at all intended here); yet if we are talking only about what can be done, then the first expression is entirely correct, for you could always make it greater, to infinity. And this is also the situation in all cases where one is speaking only of a forward progress,c i.e., of a progress from the con­ dition to the conditioned; this possible progress in the series of appear­ ances goes to infinity. From one pair of parents you could progress in a descending line of generation without end, and you could also think A51zlB540 that it might actually progress that way in the world. For here reason never needs an absolute totality in the series, because it is not presup­ posed as a condition as given (datum), but it is only added on as some­ thing conditioned, which is capable of being given (dabile), and this without end.
 
 It is entirely otherwise with the problem how far does the regress ex­ tend when it ascends from the given conditioned to its conditions in the series: whether I can say here that there is a regress to infinity or only a regress extending indetenninately far (in indefinitum), and whether from human beings now living I can ascend to infinity in the series of their ancestors, or whether it can be said only that as far as I have gone back, there has never been an empirical ground for holding the series to be bounded anywhere, so that for every forefather I am justified in seek­ ing, and at the same time bound to seek, still further for his ancestors, though not to presuppose them?
 
 To this I say: If the whole was given in empirical intuition, then the regress in the series of its inner conditions goes to infinity. But if only one member of the series is given, from which the regress to an absolute totality is first of all to proceed, then only an indeterminate kind of A513/B 541 regress (in indefinitum) takes place. Thus of the division of matter (of a body) that is given within certain boundaries, it must be said that it goes to infinity. For this matter is given in empirical intuition as a whole, and consequently with all its possible parts. Now since the condition of this whole is its part, and the condition of this part is a part made of parts, etc., and in this regress of decomposition an unconditioned (indivisible) member of this series of conditions is never encountered, not only is a bedeutet bedeutet b Progressus C 522 Section VIII.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
