Perhaps it was his difficulty in choosing between as well as working out the details of these suggestions that prevented the Critique from taking final shape before I779. One thing that Kant suggests is that the task of linking appearances in the orderly fashion required by a unified mind or self-consciousness im­ poses certain principles on those appearances because there is a certain way in which it is necessary to conceive of a unified mind -or what Kant now calls "apperception" -itself. He states that "\Vhatever is to be thought as an object of perception stands under a rule of appercep­ tion, or self-perception,"I28 and then claims that there is a "threefold dimension of synthesis" because there are "three functions of appercep­ tion" or three "exponents" of the way in which we conceive of our­ selves: we necessarily conceive of our own thoughts as having "1.
 
 relation to a subject, 2. a relation of succession among each other, and 3. [comprising] a whole," and we therefore impose these same cate­ gories -what Kant will later identifY as the categories of relationl29-on the objects of our representations. Following this argument, Kant says that "I am the original of all objects," that is, I conceive of objects in analogy with the way in which I must conceive of myself.130 Alter­ natively, Kant sometimes suggests that we necessarily conceive of objects by using the categories of a subject to which both a succession and a whole of properties belongs, and then conceive of our selves and the unity of our thought in analogy with the way we necessarily think of ob­ jects. Thus, in another note he argues that "All existence belongs to a substance; everything that happens is a member of a series; everything that is simultaneous belongs to a whole whose parts reciprocally deter­ mine each other," and then suggests that the way in which we conceive of ourselves, as subjective orders of experience, corresponds to these fundamental ways for conceiving of objects.
 
 IF In some of his most promising remarks, however, Kant suggests that there may be direct arguments showing the necessity of the use of cer­ tain categories of the understanding for certain time-determinations without any appeal to analogies between the way in which we conceive of the self and of objects in either direction. Thus, Kant argues that as­ signing determinate positions to events in time presupposes a frame­ work of principles employing the same categories that in the other passages he has associated with the concept of a subject or of an object: Something must always precede an occurrence (condition of perception).
 
 All sorts of things can precede an occurrence, but among these there is one from which it always follows.
 
 A reality is always attached (to a point in time and that which determines it) to something accompanying it, through which the point in time is determined (condition of perception).
 
 54 Introduction All sorts of things can accompany, but among them there is something that is always there.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
