Kant introduces this concept when he writes: The principium of the exposition of appearances is the general ground of the ex­ position of that which is given. The exposition of that which is thought depends merely on consciousness, but the exposition of that which is given, if one re­ gards the matter as undetermined, depends on the ground of all relation and on the linkage [Verkettung] of representations (sensations) . . . . T he exposition of appearances is therefore the determination of the ground on which the nexus of sensations depends. I26 But perhaps a clearer statement of Kant's strategy is this: There is in the soul a principium of disposition as well as of affection. The ap­ pearances can have no other order and do not otherwise belong to the unity of the power of representation except insofar as they are amenable to the common principio of disposition. For all appearance with its thoroughgoing determination must still have unity in the mind, consequently be subjected to those conditions through which the unity of representations is possible. Only that which is req­ uisite for the unity of representations belongs to the objective conditions. The unity of apprehension is necessarily connected with the unity of the intuition of space and time, for without this the latter would give no real representation.
 
 The principles of exposition must be determined on the one side through the laws of apprehension, on the other side through the unity of the power of un­ derstanding. They are the standard for observation and are not derived from perceptions, but are the ground of those in their entirety. I27 Kant's argument is that although all particular representations are given to the mind in temporal form, and all representations of outer objects are given to the mind as spatial representations, these representations cannot be linked to each other in the kind of unified order the mind de­ mands, in which each object in space and time has a determinate rela­ tion to any other, except by means of certain principles that are inherent in the mind and that the mind brings to bear on the appearances it ex­ periences. These principles will be, or be derived from, the pure con­ cepts of the understanding that have a subjective origin yet necessarily apply to all the objects of our experience, and those concepts will not have any determinate use except in the exposition of appearances. This is the theory that will answer the puzzle Kant raised in his letter to Herz of February 1772, and that will eventually allow him to write the Critique.
 
 But how exactly will the categories be shown to be the necessary con­ ditions for the exposition of appearances? This has by no means been made clear in anything cited thus far. Kant throws out a number of tan53 Introduction talizing but incomplete suggestions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
