Between 1773 and 1775, some important discussions took place, with references like R 4708 (1773-79) and R 4717 (1773-77) showing different ideas.

The argument about the world having a beginning has been around for a long time in Western philosophy and theology. Many Christian thinkers used it to prove that the world started at a specific time, which goes against the old pagan idea, especially Aristotle’s view, that the world never began. But it’s not clear where Kant got this idea from or if he thought of it himself.

The idea was probably first created by John Philoponus around 500-570 AD. In the Middle Ages, St. Bonaventure (around 1217-1274) was known for this argument. However, Bonaventure might have learned it from Richard Rufus of Cornwall, who lived earlier and might have come up with the argument on his own around 1235. Some medieval philosophers like St. Thomas Aquinas and William of Ockham didn’t agree with the argument because they thought you couldn’t prove the world started at a certain time just by thinking—it had to be revealed by God.

Kant probably didn’t know these medieval sources directly, and we don’t know exactly where he got the idea. One thinker who did support the idea and who Kant might have known about was Richard Bentley, a Cambridge theologian from the 1600s and 1700s. Bentley said that looking at the Earth’s movement, God could keep it going forever into the future because the future never ends. But looking back into the past, it’s impossible for the Earth to have been moving forever because all past movements are already done and are limited. He explained that while the future can be endless in potential, the past is actually limited.

Kant’s argument in his “First Analogy” and his later “Refutation of Idealism” reaches a similar conclusion to one that Leibniz made against Newton’s idea of absolute space. 

“Absolute space” refers to Newton’s theory of space, which is discussed in Kant’s works like the "Transcendental Aesthetic" and others.

Kant’s “dogmatic” way of explaining things is close to opposing Baumgarten’s idea of “comparative magnitude” in his Metaphysica.

Leibniz criticized Newton’s idea because it suggested there could be infinite empty space, which Leibniz didn’t agree with.

For more on the second antinomy (a kind of philosophical problem), see especially R 4534 from 1772-78.
