On the transcendental ideal though only improperly, be called ideals of sensibility because they are supposed to be the unattainable model for possible empirical intuitions, and yet at the same time they are not supposed to provide any rule ca- A 57 1/B 579 pable of being explained or tested.
 
 The aim of reason with its ideal is, on the contrary, a thoroughgoing determination in accordance with a priori rules; hence it thinks for itself an object that is to be thoroughly determinable in accordance with principles, a even though the sufficient conditions for this are absent from experience, and thus the concept itself is transcendent.b Chapter Three Section Two The transcendental ideal87 (Prototypon transcendentale) Every concept, in regard to what is not contained in it, is indetermi­ nate, and stands under the principle of determinability: that of every two contradictorily opposed predicates only one can apply to it, which rests on the principle of contradiction C and hence is a merely logical principle,d which abstracts from every content of cognition, and has in view nothing but the logical form of cognition.
 
 Every thing, however, as to its possibility, further stands under the principle of thoroughgoing determination; according to which, among all possible predicates of things, insofar as they are compared A572/B600 with their opposites, one must apply to it.88 This does not rest merely on the principle of contradiction, for besides considering every thing in relation e to two contradictorily conflicting predicates, it considers every thing further in relation! to the whole of possibility, as the sum total of all predicates of things in general; and by presupposing that as a condition a priori, it represents every thing as deriving its own possibility a Principien b Kant adds: "Consequent way of thinking. We have proved all objects of experience only as appearances. There must, therefore, be something actual besides the objects of expe­ rience. No speculative way of cognition can attain to determining this something, be­ cause the latter is a mere form of thoughts, which with us are sensible; and the existence of that which we think through reason would not be able to be proved from mere con­ cepts. But freedom in the practical furnishes an actual law of causality, which is not em­ pirical, and therefore is the actuality which, concerning its quality, not only proves the actuality of something extrasensible but also determines it. The [a final word appears to be either 'unity' (Einheit) or 'insight' (Einsicht)] . .. "(E CLXXVIII, p. 53; 23:42) , Satz des Widerspruchs d Princip Verhidtnis e f Verhdltnis 553 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
