Grounds of the possibility of experience <A> going unity of self-consciousness, i.e., must stand under universal func- A I 12 tions of synthesis, namely of the synthesis in accordance with concepts, as that in which alone apperception can demonstrate priori its thor­ a oughgoing and necessary identity. Thus the concept of a cause is nothing other than a synthesis (of that which follows in the temporal series with other appearances) in accordance with concepts; and without that sort of unity, which has its rule priori, and which subjects the ap­ a pearances to itself, thoroughgoing and universal, hence necessary unity of consciousness would not be encountered in the manifold perceptions. But these would then belong to no experience, and would conse­ quently be without an object,a and would be nothing but a blind play of representations, i.e., less than a dream.
 
 All attempts to derive these pure concepts of the understanding from experience and to ascribe to them a merely empirical origin are therefore entirely vain and futile. I will not mention that, e.g., the concept of a cause brings the trait of necessity with it, which no experience at all can yield, for experience teaches us that one appearance customarily follows another, but not that it must necessarily follow that, nor that an inference from a condition to its consequence can be made priori and a entirely universally. But that empirical rule of association, which one must assume throughout if one says that everything in the series of oc­ currences stands under rules according to which nothing happens that A I I 3 is not preceded by something upon which it always follows -on what, I ask, does this, as a law of nature, rest, and how is this association even possible? The ground of the possibility of the association of the manifold, insofar as it lies in the object,b is called the affinity of the manifold.
 
 I ask, therefore, how do you make the thoroughgoing affinity of the ap­ pearances (by means of which they stand under constant laws and must belong under them) comprehensible to yourselves?
 
 On my principles it is easily comprehensible. All possible appearances belong, as representations, to the whole possible self-consciousness. But from this, as a transcendental representation, numerical identity is insep­ arable, and certain priori, because nothing can come into cognition ex­ a cept by means of this original apperception. Now since this identity must necessarily enter into the synthesis of all the manifold of appearances in­ sofar as they are to become empirical cognition, the appearances are thus subject to priori conditions with which their synthesis (of apprehension) a must be in thoroughgoing accord. Now, however, the representation of a universal condition in accordance with which a certain manifold (of whatever kind) can be posited is called a rule, and, if it must be so posited, a law. All appearances therefore stand in a thoroughgoing cona Object Objecte b 235 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
