Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. III insightful men in conflict with one another over the characteristics of human beings, animals or plants, or even of bodies in the mineral realm, where some, e.g., assume particular characters of peoples based on their descent or on decisive and hereditary distinctions between families, races, etc., while others, by contrast, fix their minds on the thought that nature has set up no predispositions at all in this matter, and that all dif­ ferences rest only on external contingency, then I need only consider the constitution of the object in order to comprehend that it lies too deeply hidden for either of them to be able to speak from an insight into the nature of the object.o There is nothing here but the twofold inter­ est of reason, where each party takes to heart one interest or the other, or affects to do so, hence either the maxim of the manifoldness of na­ ture or that of the unity of nature; these maxims can of course be united, but as long as they are held to be objective insights, they occasion not only conflict but also hindrances that delay the discovery of the truth, A668/B696 until a means is found of uniting the disputedb interests and satisfying reason about them.
 
 It is the same with the assertion of, or the attack on, the widely re­ spected law of the ladder of continuityc among creatures, made cur­ rent by Leibniz"9 and excellently supported by Bonnet,'20 which is nothing but a pursuit of the principle of affinity resting on the interests of reason; for observation and insight into the arrangements of nature could never provide it as something to be asserted objectively. The rungs of such a ladder, such as experience can give them to us, stand too far apart from one another, and what we presume to be small differ­ ences are commonly such wide gaps in nature itself that on the basis of such observations (chiefly of the great manifoldness of things, among which it must always be easy to find certain similarities and approxima­ tions) nothing can be figured out about the intentions of nature. The method for seeking out order in nature in accord with such a principle,d on the contrary, and the maxim of regarding such an order as grounded in nature in general, even though it is undetermined where or to what extent, is a legitimate and excellent regulative principle' of reason, which, however, as such, goes much too far for experience or observa­ tion ever to catch up with it; without determining anything, it only points f the way toward systematic unity.
 
 Object a streitig; the first edition reads "strittig" (dubious).
 
 b kontinuierlichen Stufenleiter , Princip d Princip e f vorzeichnen 604 On the final aim of the natural dialectic of human reason The ideas of pure reason can never be dialectical in themselves; rather it is merely their misuse which brings it about that a deceptive illusion arises out of them; for they are given as problems for us by the nature of our reason, and this highest court of appeals for all rights and claims of our speculation cannot possibly contain original deceptions and sem­ blances.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
