Pt. II. Div. Bk. II <A> its parts). Yet with thoughts, as accidents belonging inwardly to a think­ ing being, it is otherwise. For suppose that the composite were think­ ing; then every part of it would be a part of the thought, but the parts would first contain the whole thought only when taken together. Now this would be contradictory. For because the representations that are di­ v:ided among different beings (e.g., the individual words of a verse) never constitute a whole thought (a verse), the thought can never inhere in a composite as such.25 Thus it is possible only in one substance, which is not an aggregate of many, and hence it is absolutely simple. * The so-called nervus probandi a of this argument lies in the proposition that many representations have to be contained in the absolute unity of the thinking subject in order to constitute one thought. But no one can prove this proposition from concepts. For how could he set about to A353 accomplish this? The proposition "A thought can be only the effect of the absolute unity of a thinking being" cannot be treated as analytic.
 
 For the unity of a thought consisting of many representations is collec­ tive, and, as far as mere concepts are concerned, it can be related to the collective unity of the substances cooperating in it (as the movement of a body is the composite movement of all its parts) just as easily as to the absolute unity of the subject. Thus there can be no insight into the ne­ cessity of presupposing a simple substance for a composite thought ac­ cording to the rule of identity. But that this same proposition should be cognized synthetically and fully a priori from sheer concepts -that an­ swer no one will trust himself to give when he has insight into the ground of the possibility of synthetic propositions a priori as we have es­ tablished it above.
 
 But now it is also impossible to derive this necessary unity of the sub­ ject, as a condition of the possibility of every thought, from experience.
 
 For experience gives us cognition of no necessity, to say nothing of the fact that the concept of absolute unity is far above its sphere. Where, then, will we get this proposition, on which the whole psychological syllogism rests?
 
 It is obvious that if one wants to represent a thinking being, one must put oneself in its place, and thus substitute one's own subject for the ob­ A354 jectb one wants to consider (which is not the case in any other species of investigation); and it is also obvious that we demand absolute unity for the subject of a thought only because otherwise it could not be said: A 352 * It is very easy to give this proof the usual dress of scholastic precision. Yet it is sufficient for my purpose to lay before our eyes the mere ground of proof, though in a popular manner.
 
 • the nub (literally, "nerve") of what is to be proved Object b 418 Chapter I.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
