a The action through which I make the comparison of rep­ resentations in general with the cognitive power in which they are sit­ uated, and through which I distinguish whether they are to be compared to one another as belonging to the pure understanding or to pure intuition, I call transcendental reflection. The relation, however, in which the concepts in a state of mind can belong to each other are those of identity and difference, of agreement and opposition, of the inner and the outer, and finally of the determinable and the deter­ mination (matter and form). The correct determination of this relation depends on the cognitive power in which they subjectively belong to each other, whether in sensibility or in understanding. For the differ­ ence in the latter makes a great difference in the way in which one ought to think of the former.
 
 Prior to all objective judgments we compare the concepts, with re- A262 gard to identityb (of many representations under one concept) for the sake of universal judgments, or their difference, for the generation of particular ones, with regard to agreement, for affirmative judgments, B 3 18 or opposition,' for negative ones, etc. On this ground it would seem that we ought to call these concepts concepts of comparison (conceptus comparationis). But since, if it is not the logical form but the content of concepts that is concerned, i.e., whether the things themselves are identical or different, in agreement or in opposition, etc., the things can have a twofold relation to our power of cognition, namely to sensibility and to understanding, yet it is this place in which they belong that concerns how they ought to belong to each other, then it is transcendental reflection, i.e., the relation of given representations to one or the other kind of cognition, that can alone determine their relation among themselves, and whether the things are identical or different, in agreement or in opposition, etc., cannot immediately be made out from the concepts themselves through mere comparison (comparatio), but rather only through the distinction of the kind of cognition to which they belong, by means of a transcendental reflection (reflexio). To be sure, one could a Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "The judgment in accordance with concepts of reflection is, with regard to things in themselves, analytic, only the consciousness to determine, in appearances, is synthetic." (E CXLI, p. 44; 23:3 7) Einerleybeit. The following note is inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "VV"hether b identical concepts of things prove one and the same thing, and therefore no multiplicity, or whether in spite of complete identity of concepts there can yet be many things, on ac­ count of the difference in places -this belongs to logical quantity." (E CXLII, p. 44; 23'37) , Widerstreit. Inserted in Kant's copy of the first edition: "Mutually non-contradictory concepts of realities are in agreement. Can I therefore say that the things are in agree­ ment, which consist in those very things together? Conversely, can two opposed deter­ minations in an alteration be in opposition to each other in the thing in itself, but in agreement in the phaenomenon?" (E CXLIII, pp. 44-5; 23:37) 367 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
