On the relation of understanding to objects <A> and would therefore be nothing for us, and since it has no objective re­ ality in itself and exists only in cognition it would be nothing at all). But since every appearance contains a manifold, thus different perceptions by themselves are encountered dispersed and separate in the mind, a combination of them, which they cannot have in sense itself, is therefore necessary. There is thus an active faculty of the synthesis of this mani­ fold in us, which we call imagination, and whose action exercised im­ mediately upon perceptions I call apprehension.* For the imagination is to bring the manifold of intuition into an image;a it must therefore an­ tecedently take up the impressions into its activity, i.e., apprehend them.
 
 It is, however, clear that even this apprehension of the manifold alone A I 2 I would bring forth no image and no connection of the impressions were there not a subjective ground for calling back a perception, from which the mind has passed on to another, to the succeeding ones, and thus for exhibiting entire series of perceptions, i.e., a reproductive faculty of imagination, which is then also merely empirical.
 
 Since, however, if representations reproduced one another without distinction, just as they fell together, there would in turn be no deter­ minate connection but merely unruly heaps of them, and no cognition at all would arise; their reproduction must thus have a rule in accor­ dance with which a representation enters into combination in the imag­ ination with one representation rather than with any others. This subjective and empirical ground of reproduction in accordance with rules is called the association of representations.
 
 But now if this unity of association did not also have an objective ground, so that it would be impossible for appearances to be appre­ hended by the imagination otherwise than under the condition of a pos­ sible synthetic unity of this apprehension, then it would also be entirely contingent whether appearances fit into a connection of human cogni­ tions. For even though we had the faculty for associating perceptions, it would still remain in itself entirely undetermined and contingent AI22 whether they were also associable; and in case they were not, a multitude of perceptions and even an entire sensibility would be possible in which much empirical consciousness would be encountered in my mind, but separated, and without belonging to one consciousness of * No psychologist has yet thought that the imagination is a necessary ingredi- AI20 ent of perception itself. This is so partly because this faculty has been limited to reproduction, and partly because it has been believed that the senses do not merely afford us impressions but also put them together, and produce images of objects, for which without doubt something more than the receptivity of impressions is required, namely a function of the synthesis of them.
 
 a Bild 239 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
