Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> <§ 3 Transcendental exposition of the concept of space.
 
 I understand by a transcendental exposition the explanation of a concept as a principlea from which insight into the possibility of other synthetic priori cognitions can be gained. For this aim it is required r) a that such cognitions actually flow from the given concept, and 2) that these cognitions are only possible under the presupposition of a given way of explaining this concept.
 
 Geometry is a science that determines the properties of space syn­ thetically and yet priori. vv'hat then must the representation of space a be for such a cognition of it to be possible? It must originally be intu841 ition; for from a mere concept no propositions can be drawn that go be­ yond the concept, which, however, happens in geometry (Introduction V). But this intuition must be encountered in us priori, i.e., prior to all a perception of an object, thus it must be pure, not empirical intuition.
 
 For geometrical propositions are all apodictic, i.e., combined with con­ sciousness of their necessity, e.g., space has only three dimensions; but such propositions cannot be empirical or judgments of experience, nor inferred from them (Introduction II).
 
 Now how can an outer intuition inhabit the mind that precedes the objects b themselves, and in which the concept of the latter can be de­ termined priori? Obviously not otherwise than insofar as it has its seat a merely in the subject, as its formal constitution for being affected by ob­ jectsC and thereby acquiring immediate representation, i.e., intuition, of them, thus only as the form of outer sense in general.
 
 Thus our explanation alone makes the possibility of geometry as a synthetic priori cognition comprehensible. Any kind of explanation a that does not accomplish this, even if it appears to have some similar­ ity with it, can most surely be distinguished from it by means of this characteristic.>29 Az6/B42 Conclusions from the above concepts.
 
 a) Space represents no property at all of any things in themselves nor any relation of them to each other, i.e., no determination of them that attaches to objects themselves and that would remain even if one were to abstract from all subjective conditions of intuition. For neither ab­ solute nor relative determinations can be intuited prior to the existence of the things to which they pertain, thus be intuited priori.
 
 a Princips a Objecten b , Objecten 176 Section 1.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
