Practical laws, insofar as they are at the same time subjective grounds of actions, i.e., subjective principles, are called maxims. The judg­ menta of morality concerning its purity and consequences takes place in accordance with ideas, the observance of its laws, in accordance with maximsY It is necessary that our entire course of life be subordinated to moral maxims; but it would at the same time be impossible for this to happen if reason did not connect with the moral law, which is a mere idea, an efficient cause which determines for the conduct in accord with this law an outcome precisely corresponding to our highest ends, whether in this or in another life. Thus without a God and a world that is now not A 8 1 3 / B 841 visible to us but is hoped for, the majestic ideas of morality are, to be sure, objects of approbation and admiration but not incentives for resolve and realization, because they would not fulfill the whole end that is natural for every rational being and determined a priori and necessarily through the very same pure reason.
 
 Happiness alone is far from the complete good for our reason. Rea­ son does not approve of it (however much inclination may wish for it) where it is not united with the worthiness to be happy, i.e., with morally good conduct. Yet morality alone, and with it, the mere worthiness to be happy, is also far from being the complete good. In order to com­ plete the latter, he who has not conducted himself so as to be unworthy of happiness must be able to hope to partake of it. Even reason free from all private aims cannot judge otherwise if, without taking into ac­ count an interest of its own, it puts itself in the place of a being who would have to distribute all happiness to others; for in the practical idea both elements are essentially combined, though in such a way that the moral disposition, as a condition, first makes partaking in happiness possible, rather than the prospect of happiness first making possible the moral disposition. For in the latter case the disposition would not be moral and would therefore also be unworthy of complete happiness, A814/B842 which knowsb no other limitation before reason except that which is derived from our own immoral conduct.
 
 Thus happiness in exact proportion with the morality of rational be­ ings, through which they are worthy of it, alone constitutes the highest a Beurtheilung b erkennt 681 Doctrine of Method.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
