Part 1. The Transcendental Aesthetic <B> it, the concept of motion (as alteration of place), is only possible through and in the representation of time -that if this representation were not a priori (inner) intuition, then no concept, whatever it might be, could make comprehensible the possibility of an alteration, i.e., of a combination of contradictorily opposed predicates (e.g., a thing's being in a place and the not-being of the very same thing in the same place) in one and the same object.a Only in time can both contradictorily opB49 posed determinations in one thing be encountered, namely succes­ sively. Our concept of time therefore explains the possibility of as much synthetic a priori cognition as is presented by the general theory of mo­ tion, which is no less fruitful.>30 <§ 6> A 32 Conclusions from these concepts.
 
 a) Time is not something that would subsist for itself or attach to things as an objective determination, and thus remain if one abstracted from all subjective conditions of the intuition of them; for in the first case it would be something that was actual yet without an actual object. As far A 3 3 as the second case is concerned, however, time could not precede the objects as a determination or order attaching to the things themselves as their condition and be cognized and intuited a priori through syn­ thetic propositions. But the latter, on the contrary, can very well occur if time is nothing other than the subjective condition under which all intuitions can take place in us. For then this form of inner intuition can be represented prior to the objects, thus priori.
 
 a b) Time is nothing other than the form of inner sense, i.e., of the in­ tuition of our self and our inner state. For time cannot be a determinaB 50 tion of outer appearances; it belongs neither to a shape or a position, etc., but on the contrary determines the relation of representations in our inner state. And just because this inner intuition yields no shape we also attempt to remedy this lack through analogies, and represent the temporal sequence through a line progressing to infinity, in which the manifold constitutes a series that is of only one dimension, and infer from the properties of this line to all the properties of time, with the sole difference that the parts of the former are simultaneous but those of the latter always exist successively. From this it is also apparent that the representation of time is itself an intuition, since all its relations can be expressed in an outer intuition.
 
 A 34 c) Time is the a priori formal condition of all appearances in general.
 
 Space, as the pure form of all outer intuitions, is limited as an a priori Objecte a 180 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
