Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II ances and the totality of their synthesis in the great as well as in the small, i.e., in their progress through compositiona as well as through di­ vision. But the very same world is called nature* insofar as it is consid­ ered as a dynamic whole and one does not look at the aggregation in space or time so as to bring about a quantity, but looks instead at the unity in the existence of appearances. Now the condition of what hap­ pens is called the cause, and the unconditioned causality of the cause in appearance is called freedom; the conditioned cause in the narrower sense, on the contrary, is called the natural cause. The conditioned in existence in general is called contingent, and the unconditioned neces­ sary. The unconditioned necessity of appearances can be called natural necessity.
 
 Above I have called the ideas with which we are now concerned "cos­ mological ideas," partly because by "world" is understood the sum total of all appearances, and our ideas are also directed only toward the un­ conditioned among appearances, but partly too because in the tran­ scendental sense the word "world" signities the absolute totality of the sum total of existing things, and we are directing our attention only to the completeness of the synthesis (though properly only in the regress toward its conditions). Considering, moreover, that taken collectively these ideas are all transcendent and, even though they do not overstep the object,b namely appearances, in kind, but have to do only with the sensible world (not with noumena), they nevertheless carry the synthe­ c sis to a degree that transcends all possible experience; thus in myopin­ ion one can quite appropriately call them collectively world-concepts.
 
 In regard to the distinction between the mathematically and the dy­ namically unconditioned toward which the regress aims, I would call the first two world-concepts in a narrower sense (the world in great and * "Nature" taken adjectivally lformaliter)d signifies the connection of determi­ nations of a thing in accordance with an inner principle' of causality.
 
 Conversely, by "nature" taken substantively (materialiter! is understood the sum total of appearances insofar as these are in thoroughgoing connection through an inner principleg of causality. In the first sense one speaks of the "nature" of fluid matter, of fire, etc., and employs this word adjectivally; con­ versely, if one talks about the "things of nature," then one has in mind a sub­ sisting whole.
 
 a Zusammensetzung b Object C Kant declines the word in the Latin dative, as Noumenis.
 
 formally d , Princip f materially Princip g 466 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
