On the principles of a transcendental deduction The transcendental deduction of all priori concepts therefore has a A94 a principle toward which the entire investigation must be directed, namely this: that they must be recognized as priori conditions of the a possibility of experiences (whether of the intuition that is encountered in them, or of the thinking). '9 Concepts that supply the objective ground of the possibility of experience are necessary just for that reason. The unfolding of the experience in which they are encountered, however, is not their deduction (but their illustration), since they would thereby be only contingent. Without this original relation to possible B 127 experience, in which all objects ofc ognition are found, their relation to any objectb could not be comprehended at all.
 
 {[There are, however, three original sources (capacities or faculties of the soul), which contain the conditions of the possibility of all experience, and cannot themselves be derived from any other faculty of the mind, namely sense, imagination, and apperception. On these are grounded I) the synopsis of the manifold priori through sense; 2) the a synthesis of this manifold through the imagination; finally 3) the unity of this synthesis through original apperception. In addition to their empirical use, all of these faculties have a transcendental one, which is concerned solely with form, and which is possible priori. We have dis­ a cussed this with regard to the senses in the first part above, however, A95 we will now attempt to understand the nature of the two other ones.] d<The famous Locke, from neglect of this consideration, and because B I27 he encountered pure concepts of the understanding in experience, also derived them from this experience, and thus proceeded so inconsistently that he thereby dared to make attempts at cognitions that go far beyond the boundary of all experience. David Hume recognized that in order to be able to do the latter it is necessary that these concepts would have to have their origin priori. But since he could not explain at all a how it is possible for the understanding to think of concepts that in themselves are not combined in the understanding as still necessarily combined in the object, and it never occurred to him that perhaps the understanding itself, by means of these concepts, could be the originator of the experience in which its objects are encountered, he thus, driven by necessity, derived them from experience (namely from a subjective necessity arisen from frequent association in experience, which is subsequently falsely held to be objective, i.e., custom);e however he a Principium Object b , This paragraph in the first edition is omitted in the second and replaced by three that here follow it.
 
 d The next three paragraphs are added in the second edition, replacing the previous one.
 
 , Gewohnheit 225 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
