Pt. II. Div. II. Bk. II. Ch. II ments on which the solution really depends, and take each particular moment into consideration.
 
 The law of nature that everything that happens has a cause, that since the causality of this cause, i.e., the action, precedes in time and in respect of an effect that has arisen cannot have been always but must have hap­ pened, and so must also have had its cause among appearances, through which it is determined, and consequently that all occurrences are empir­ ically determined in a natural order -this law, through which alone ap­ pearances can first constitute one nature and furnish objects of one experience, is a law of the understanding, from which under no pretext can any departure be allowed or any appearance be exempted; because otherwise one would put this appearance outside of all possible experiA 5431 B 57 I ence, thereby distinguishing it from all objects of possible experience and making it into a mere thought-entity and a figment of the brain.
 
 But although it looks as if there is solely a chain of causes, permitting no absolute totality at all in the regress to their conditions, this reser­ vation does not detain us at all; for it has already been removed in our general judgment on the antinomy of reason occurring when reason proceeds to the unconditioned in the series of appearances. If we would give in to the deception of transcendental realism, then neither nature nor freedom would be left. Here the question is only: If in the whole se­ ries of all occurrences one recognizes purelY' natural necessity, is it nev­ ertheless possible to regard the same occurrence, which on the one hand is a mere effect of nature, as on the other hand an effect of free­ dom; or will a direct contradiction between these two kinds of causality be found?
 
 Among the causes in appearance there can surely be nothing that could begin a series absolutely and from itself. Every action, as appear­ ance, insofar as it produces an occurrence, is itself an occurrence, or event, which presupposes another state in which its cause is found; and thus everything that happens is only a continuation of the series, and no beginning that would take place from itself is possible in it. Thus in the A 5441 B 572 temporal succession all actions of natural causes are themselves in turn effects, which likewise presuppose their causes in the time-series. An original action, through which something happens that previously was not, is not to be expected from the causal connection of appearances.
 
 But then if the effects are appearances, is it also necessary that the causality of their cause, which (namely, the cause) is also appearance, must be solely empirical?82 Is it not rather possible that although for every effect in appearance there is required a connectionb with its cause in accordance with laws of empirical causality, this empirical causality a tauter b Verkniipfung 538 Section IX.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
