Systematic representation of all synthetic principles every perception (of appearance in space) is broken off from the others, A214 and the chain of empirical representations, i.e., experience, would have to start entirely over with every new objecta without the previous one B 261 being in the least connected or being able to stand in a temporal relation with it. I do not in the least hereby mean to refute empty space; that may well exist where perceptions do not reach, and thus where no empirical cognition of simultaneity takes place; but it is then hardly an objectb for our possible experience at all.
 
 The following can serve as an elucidation. In our mind all appear­ ances, as contained in a possible experience, must stand in a community (communio) of apperception, and insofar as the objects are to be repre­ sented as being connected by existing simultaneously, they must recip­ rocally determine their position in one time and thereby constitute a whole. If this subjective community is to rest on an objective ground, or is to be related to appearances as substances, then the perception of one, as ground, must make possible the perception of the other, and con­ versely, so that the succession that always exists in the perceptions, as apprehensions, will not be ascribed to the objects, but these can instead c be represented as existing simultaneously. But this is a reciprocal influ­ ence, i.e., a real community (commercium) of substances, without which the empirical relation of simultaneity could not obtain in experience. A 2 15 Through this commerced the appearances, insofar as they stand outside one another and yet in connection, constitute a composite (compositum B 262 reale), and composites! of this sort are possible in many ways. Hence the three dynamical relations, from which all others arise, are those of in­ herence, of consequence, and of composition.g * * * These, then, are the three analogies of experience. They are nothing other than principles of the determination of the existence of appear­ ances in time, in accordance with all three of its modi: that of the rela­ tion to time itself, as a magnitude (the magnitude of existence, i.e., duration); that of the relation in time, as a series (one after another); and finally that in time as a sum of all existence (simultaneous). This unity of time-determination is through and through dynamical, i.e., time is not regarded as that within which experience immediately determines a Object Object b , Objecten d Commercium, printed as a German rather than Latin word.
 
 Zusammengesetztes , f Composita, printed as a German rather than Latin word.
 
 Composition g 319 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
