Critique of all speculative theology i.e., a ground thinkable merely by the pure understanding. If the ques足 tion is second whether this being is substance, of the greatest reality, necessary, etc., then I answer that this question has no significance at all. For all the categories through which I attempt to frame a con足 cept of such an object are of none but an empirical use, and they have no sense at all when they are not applied to objectsa of possible experi足 ence, i.e., to the world of sense. Outside this field they are mere titles for concepts, which one might allow, but through which one can also understand nothing. Finally, if the question is third whether we may not at least think this being different from the world in accordance with an analogy with objects of experience, then the answer is by all means, but only as object in the idea and not in reality, namely, only insofar as A697/B725 it is a substratum, unknown to us, of the systematic unity, order, and purposiveness of the world's arrangement, which reason has to make into a regulative principleb of its investigation of nature. Still more, in this idea we can allow certain anthropomorphisms, which are expedient for the regulative principle we are thinking of, without fear or blame.
 
 For it is always only an idea, which is by no means related directly to a being different from the world, but rather referred to the regulative principled of the world's systematic unity, but only by means of a schema of that unity, namely of a supreme intelligence that is its author through wise intentions. What this original grounde of the world's unity is in itself ought not to have been thought through this, but rather only how we ought to use it, or rather its idea, in relation to the systematic use of reason in regard to things in the world.
 
 But in this way (one will continue to ask) can we nevertheless assume a unique wise and all-powerful world author? Without any doubt; and not only that, but we must presuppose such a being. But then do we ex足 tend our cognition beyond the field of possible experience? By no means. For we have only presupposed a Something, of which we have no concept at all of what it is in itself (a merely transcendental object); A698/ B 726 but, in relation to the systematic and purposive order of the world's structure, which we must presuppose when we study nature, we have thought this being, which is unknown to us, in accordance with the analogy with an intelligence (an empirical concept); i.e., in regard to the ends and the perfection on which those ends are grounded, we have given it just those properties that could contain the ground for such a systematic unity in accordance with the conditions of our reason. This a Objecte Princip b , Princip Princip d , Urgrund, following the first edition; the second edition reads" Ungrund" (abyss).
 
 619 Doctrine of Elements.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
