The idea and division of a special science under the name of a critique of pure reason.
 
 Now from all of this there results the idea of a special science, which A I I can be called the critique of pure reason.b ForC reason is the faculty that provides the principlesd of cognition priori. Hence pure reason is a that which contains the principlese for cognizing something absolutely priori. An organon of pure reason would be a sum total of all those a principles! in accordance with which all pure priori cognitions can be B 25 a acquired and actually brought about. The exhaustive application of such an organon would create a system of pure reason. But since that requires a lot, and it is still an open question whether such an amplification of our knowledge is possible at all and in what cases it would be possible, we can regard a science of me mere estimation of pure reason, of its sources and boundaries, as the propaedeutic to the system of pure reason. Such a thing would not be a doctrine, but must be called only a critique of pure reason, and its utility in regard to speculationg would really be only negative, serving not for the amplification but only for the purification of our reason, and for keeping it free of errors, by which a great deal is already won. I call all cognition transcendental that is occupied not so much with objects but rather with our mode of cognition of objects insofar as this is to be possible priori.h,23 A system of A I2 a such concepts would be called transcendental philosophy. But this is again too much for the beginning. For since such a science would have to contain completely both the analytic as well as the synthetic priori a cognition, it is, so fari as our aim is concerned, too broad in scope, since we need to take the analysis only as far as is indispensably necessary in order to provide insight into the principles of priori synthesis in their a entire scope, which is our only concern. This investigation, which we B 26\ a The section number VII and the following title are inserted at this point in the second edition, following which the text common to the two editions resumes, with minor al­ terations.
 
 "die Kritik der reinen Vernunft heiflen kann" substituted in the second edition for "die b zur Kritik der rein en Vernunft dienen kanne." The next two sentences in the first edition are omitted; see above.
 
 A I I , "Denn" substituted in the second edition for "Nun." Principien d , Principien f Principien "in Ansehung der Spekulation" added in the second edition.
 
 g "sondern mit unserer Erkenntnisart von Gegenstanden, so fern diese priori miJglich sem solI" h a substituted in the second edition for "sondern mit unsern Begriffen priori a von Gegenstanden. " , "so weit" substituted for "insofern" in the second edition.
 
 149 Introduction <B> can properly call not doctrine but only transcendental critique, since it does not aim at the amplification of cognitions themselves but only at their correction, and is to supply the touchstone of the worth or worth­ lessness of all cognitions priori, is that with which we are now con­ a cerned.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
