Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. II appearances, as things or objects, are determinable in a possible experi足 ence. As to the empirical criterion of this necessary persistence and with it of the substantiality of appearances, however, what follows will give us the opportunity to note what is necessary.73 B.
 
 Second Analogy.
 
 <Principle of temporal sequence according to the law of causality.>a,74 [In the first edition:] Everything that happens (begins to be) presupposes some足 thing which it follows in accordance with a rule.
 
 [In the second edition:] <All alterations occur in accordance with the law of the connection of cause and effect.> Proof <b(That all appearances of the temporal sequence are collectively only alterations, i.e., a successive being and not-being of the determinations of the substance that persists there, consequently that the being of the substance itself, which succeeds its not-being, or its not-being, which succeeds its being, in other words, that the arising or perishing of the B 233 substance does not occur, the previous principle has shown. This could also have been expressed thus: All change (succession) of appear足 ances is only alteration; for the arising or perishing of substance are not alterations of it, since the concept of alteration presupposes one and the same subject as existing with two opposed determinations, and thus as persisting. -After this preliminary reminder the proof follows.) I perceive that appearances succeed one another, i.e., that a state of things exists at one time the opposite of which existed in the previous state. Thus I really connect two perceptions in time. Now connection is not the work of mere sense and intuition, but is here rather the prod足 uct of a synthetic faculty of the imagination, which determines inner sense with regard to temporal relations. This, however, can combine the two states in question in two different ways, so that either one or the other precedes in time; for time cannot be perceived in itself, nor can what precedes and what follows in objectsC be as it were empirically determined in relationd to it. I am therefore only conscious that my a In the first edition: "Principle of Generation." The following two paragraphs were added in the second edition.
 
 b , Objecte Beziehung d 304 Section III.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
