Pt. II. Div. I. Bk. II. Ch. I schema of relation,a the relationb of the perceptions among themselves to all time (i.e., in accordance with a rule of time-determination); fi­ nally, in the schema of modality and its categories, time itself, as the correlate of the determination of whether and how an object belongs to time. The schemata are therefore nothing but a priori time-determi­ nations in accordance with rules, and these concern, according to the order of the categories, the time-series, the content of time, the B 185 order of time, and finally the sum total of timec in regard to all pos­ sible objects.
 
 From this it is clear that the schematism of the understanding through the transcendental synthesis of imagination comes down to nothing other than the unity of all the manifold of intuition in inner sense, and thus indirectly to the unity of apperception, as the function that corresponds to inner sense (to a receptivity). Thus the schemata of A 146 the concepts of pure understanding are the true and sole conditions for providing them with a relation to objects/ thus with significance, and hence the categories are in the end of none but a possible empirical use, since they merely serve to subject appearances to general rules of syn­ thesis through grounds of an a priori necessary unity (on account of the necessary unification of all consciousness in an original apperception), and thereby to make them fit for a thoroughgoing connection in one experience.
 
 All of our cognitions, however, lie in the entirety of all possible ex­ perience, and transcendental truth, which precedes all empirical truth and makes it possible, consists in the general relation to this.
 
 But it is also obvious that, although the schemata of sensibility first B 186 realize the categories, yet they likewise also restrict them, i.e., limit them to conditions that lie outside the understanding (namely, in sensi­ bility). Hence the schema is really only the phenomenon, or the sensi­ ble concept of an object, in agreement with the category. (Numerus est quantitas phaenomenon, sensatio realitas phaenomenon, constans et per­ durabile rerum substantia phaenomenon aeternitas, necessitas phaenomena etc.).e Now if we leave aside a restricting condition, it may seem as if we A 147 amplify the previously limited concept; thus the categories in their pure significance, without any conditions of sensibility, should hold for things in general, as they are, instead of their schemata merely repre­ senting them how they appear, and they would therefore have a siga Relation Verhiiltnis b , Zeitinbewiff Objecte d , "Number is the quantity [of the] phenomenon, sensation the reality [of the] phenomenon, constancy and the endurance of things the substance [of the] phenomenon, eteruity the necessity [of] phenomena, etc." 276 On the schematism of pure concepts of understanding nificance independent of all schemata and extending far beyond them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
