And even if the first clash is not the only one, the influence it has on subsequent actions will be on a scale proportionate to its own. But it is contrary to human nature to make an extreme effort, and the tendency therefore is always to plead that a decision may be possible later on. As a result, for the first decision, effort and concentration of forces are not all they might be. Anything omitted out of weakness by one side becomes a real, objective reason for the other to reduce its efforts, and the tendency toward extremes is once again reduced by this interaction.
 
 Lastly, even the ultimate outcome of a war is not always to be regarded as final. The defeated state often considers the outcome merely as a transitory evil, for which a remedy may still be found in political conditions at some later date. It is obvious how this, too, can slacken tension and reduce the vigor of the effort.
 
 Warfare thus eludes the strict themetical requirement that extremes of force be applied. Once the extreme is no longer feared or aimed at, it becomes a matter of judgment what degree of effort should be made; and this can only be based on the phenomena of the real world and the laws of probability.
 
 Once the antagonists have ceased to be mere figments of a theory and become actual states and governments, when war is no longer a theoretical affair but a series of actions obeying its own peculiar laws, reality supplies the data from which we can deduce the unknown that lies ahead.
 
 .d From the enemy's character, from his institutions, the state of his affair: e vre and his general situation, each side, using the laws of probability, forms an se estimate of its opponent's likely course and acts accordingly.
 
 r sth g ir llA .}re h silb u A subject which we last considered in Section 2 now forces itself on us again, P {$ namely the political object of the war. Hitherto it had been rather over.}e shadowed by the law of extremes, the will to overcome the enemy and make ta D {$ him powerless. But as this law begins to lose its force and as this determina© th tion wanes, the political aim will reassert itself. If it is all a calculation of g iryp probabilities based on given individuals and conditions, the political object, o which was the original motive, must become an essential factor in the equaC CHAPTER ONE tion.
 
