The second question is how to influence the enemy's expenditure of effort; in other words, how to make the war more costly to him.
 
 The enemy's expenditure of effort consists in the wastage of his forcesour destruction of them; and in his loss of territory—our conquest.
 
 Closer study will make it obvious that both of these factors can vary in their significance with the variation in objectives. As a rule the differences will be slight, but that should not mislead us, for in practice, when strong motives are not present, the slightest nuances often decide between the different uses of force. For the moment all that matters is to show that, given certain conditions, different ways of reaching the objective are possible and that they are neither inconsistent, absurd, nor even mistaken.
 
 In addition, there are three other methods directly aimed at increasing the enemy's expenditure of effort. The first of these is invasion, that is the seizure of enemy territory; not with the object of retaining it but in order to exact financial contributions, or even to lay it waste. The immediate object here is neither to conquer the enemy country nor to destroy its army, but simply to cause general damage. The second method is to give priority to operations that will increase the enemy's suffering. It is easy to imagine two alternatives: one operation is far more advantageous if the purpose is to defeat the enemy; the other is more profitable if that cannot be done. The first tends to be described as the more military, the second the more political alternative. From the highest point of view, however, one is as military as the other, and neither is appropriate unless it suits the particular conditions.
 
 The third, and far the most important method, judging from the frequency of its use, is to wear down the enemy. That expression is more than a label; it describes the process precisely, and is not so metaphorical as it may seem at first. Wearing down the enemy in a conflict means using the duration of the war to bring about u gradual exhaustion of his physical and moral resistance.
 
 If we intend to hold out longer than our opponent we must be content with the smallest possible objects, for obviously a major object requires more .d effort than a minor one. The minimum object is pure self-defense; in other e vre words, fighting without a positive purpose. With such a policy our relative se r sth g s w tr il e l n b g e th g w re i a ll t e b s e t.
 
 a B t u it t s h h o e w ig h f t a , r a c n a d n t t h h u i s s t n h e e g a p t r i o v s it p y e c b ts e f p o u r s a h e f d a ?
 
 v o O ra b b v le io o u u sl t y c o n m o e t ir llA to the point of absolute passivity, for sheer endurance would not be fighting .}re at all. But resistance is a form of action, aimed at destroying enough of h silb the enemy's power to force him to renounce his intentions. Every single u P act of our resistance is directed to that act alone, and that is what makes {$ .}e our policy negative.
 
 ta D Undoubtedly a single action, assuming it succeeds, would do less for a {$ © negative aim than it would for a positive one. But that is just the difference: th g the former is more likely to succeed and so to give you more security. What iryp it lacks in immediate effectiveness it must make up for in its use of time, o C BOOK ONE that is by prolonging the war.
 
