Daring, on the other hand, boldness, rashness, trusting in luck are only variants of courage, and all these traits of character seek their proper element-chance.
 
 In short, absolute, so-called mathematical, factors never find a firm basis in military calculations. From the very start there is an interplay of possibilities, probabilities, good luck and bad that weaves its way throughout the length and breadth of the tapestry. In the whole range of human activities, war most closely resembles a game of cards.
 
 Although our intellect always longs for clarity and certainty, our nature often finds uncertainty fascinating. It prefers to day-dream in the realms of chance and luck rather than accompany the intellect on its narrow and tortuous path of philosophical enquiry and logical deduction only to arrivehardly knowing how-in unfamiliar surroundings where all the usual landmarks seem to have disappeared. Unconfined by narrow necessity, it can revel in a wealth of possibilities; which inspire courage to take wing and dive into the element of daring and danger like a fearless swimmer into the current.
 
 Should theory leave us here, and cheerfully go on elaborating absolute conclusions and prescriptions? Then it would be no use at all in real life.
 
 No, it must also take the human factor into account, and find room for courage, boldness, even foolhardiness. The art of war deals with living and with moral forces. Consequently, it cannot attain the absolute, or certainty it must always leave a margin for uncertainty, in the greatest things as much as in the smallest. With uncertainty in one scale, courage and self-confidence must be thrown into the other to correct the balance. The greater they are, the greater the margin that can be left for accidents. Thus courage and selfconfidence are essential in war, and theory should propose only rules that give ample scope to these finest and least dispensable of military virtues, in all their degrees and variations. Even in daring there can be method and .d caution; but here they are measured by a different standard.
 
 e vre se r sth g ir llA .}re h Such is war, such is the commander who directs it, and such the theory that silb governs it. War is no pastime; it is no mere joy in daring and winning, no u P {$ place for irresponsible enthusiasts. It is a serious means to a serious end, and .}e ta all its colorful resemblance to a game of chance, all the vicissitudes of pasD {$ sion, courage, imagination, and enthusiasm it includes are merely its special © th characteristics.
 
 g iryp When whole communities go to war-whole peoples, and especially o C civilized peoples-the reason always lies in some political situation, and the CHAPTER ONE occasion is always due to some political object.
 
