Since of the three objectives named, it is the fighting forces that assure the safety of the country, the natural sequence would be to destroy them first, and then subdue the country. Having achieved these two goals and exploiting our own position of strength, we can bring the enemy to the peace table. As a rule, destroying the enemy's forces tends to be a gradual process, as does the ensuing subjugation of the country. Normally the one reacts on the other, in that loss of territory weakens the fighting forces; but that particular sequence of events is not essential and therefore does not always take place. Before they suffer seriously, the enemy's forces may retire to remote areas, or even withdraw to other countries. In that event, of course, most or all of the country will be occupied.
 
 But the aim of disarming the enemy (the object of war in the abstract, the ultimate means of accomplishing the war's political purpose, which should incorporate all the rest) is in fact not always encountered in reality, and need not be fully achieved as a condition of peace. On no account should theory raise it to the level of a law. Many treaties have been concluded before one of the antagonists could be called powerless-even before the balance of power had been seriously altered. What is more, a review of actual cases shows a whole category of wars in which the very idea of defeating the enemy is unreal: those in which the enemy is substantially the stronger power.
 
 The reason why the object of war that emerges in theory is sometimes inappropriate to actual conflict is that war can be of two very different kinds, a point we discussed in the first chapter. If war were what pure theory postulates, a war between states of markedly unequal strength would be absurd, and so impossible. At most, material disparity could not go beyond the amount that moral factors could replace; and social conditions being what they are in Europe today, moral forces would not go far. But wars have in fact been fought between states of very unequal strength, for actual war is often far removed from the pure concept postulated by theory.
 
 Inability to carry on the struggle can, in practice, be replaced by two other .d e vre grounds for making peace: the first is the improbability of victory; the secse ond is its unacceptable cost.
 
 r sth As we saw in the first chapter, war, if taken as a whole, is bound to move g ir llA from the strict law of inherent necessity toward probabilities. The more the .}re circumstances that gave rise to the conflict cause it to do so, the slighter will h silb be its motives and the tensions which it occasions. And this makes it underu P standable how an analysis of probabilities may lead to peace itself. Not every {$ .}e war need be fought until one side collapses. When the motives and tensions ta of war are slight we can imagine that the very faintest prospect of defeat D {$ © might be enough to cause one side to yield. If from the very start the other th side feels that this is probable, it will obviously concentrate on bringing g iryp about this probability rather than take the long way round and totally defeat o C the enemy.
 
 9 BOOK ONE Of even greater influence on the decision to make peace is the consciousness of all the effort that has already been made and of the efforts yet to come.
 
