understanding, yet she was the only one; and I remained faithful to her and with her I discovered, by my own experience, what a great difference there is between the restraint of the marriage bond contracted with a view to having children and the compact of a lustful love, where children are born against the parents’ will-although once they are born they compel our love.
 
 3. I remember too that, when I decided to compete for a theatrical prize, some magician—I do not remember him now—asked me what I would give him to be certain to win. But I detested and abominated such filthy mysteries,86 and answered “that, even if the garland was of imperishable gold, I would still not permit a fly to be killed to win it for me.” For he would have slain certain living creatures in his sacrifices, and by those honors would have invited the devils to help me. This evil thing I refused, but not out of a pure love of thee, O God of my heart, for I knew not how to love thee because I knew not how to conceive of anything beyond corporeal splendors. And does not a soul, sighing after such idle fictions, commit fornication against thee, trust in false things, and “feed on the winds”87?
 
 But still I would not have sacrifices offered to devils on my behalf, though I was myself still offering them sacrifices of a sort by my own [Manichean] superstition.
 
 For what else is it “to feed on the winds” but to feed on the devils, that is, in our wanderings to become their sport and mockery?
 
 CHAPTER III 4. And yet, without scruple, I consulted those other impostors, whom they call “astrologers” [mathematicos], because they used no sacrifices and invoked the aid of no spirit for their divinations. Still, true Christian piety must necessarily reject and condemn their art.
 
 It is good to confess to thee and to say, “Have mercy on me; heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee”88—not to abuse thy goodness as a license to sin, but to remember the words of the Lord, “Behold, you are made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing befall you.”89 All this wholesome advice [the astrologers] labor to destroy when they say, “The cause of your sin is inevitably fixed in the heavens,” and, “This is the doing of Venus, or of Saturn, or of Mars”—all this in order that a man, who is only flesh and blood and proud corruption, may regard himself as blameless, while the Creator and Ordainer of heaven and the stars must bear the blame of our ills and misfortunes. But who is this Creator but thou, our God, the sweetness and wellspring of righteousness, who renderest to every man according to his works and despisest not “a broken and a contrite heart”90?
 
 5. There was at that time a wise man, very skillful and quite famous in medicine.91 He was proconsul then, and with his own hand he placed on my distempered head the crown I had won in a rhetorical contest. He did not do this as a physician, however; and for this distemper “only thou canst heal who resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble.”92 But didst thou fail me in that old man, or forbear from healing my soul? Actually when I became better acquainted with him, I 86The rites of the soothsayers, in which animals were killed, for auguries and propitiation of the gods.
 
 87Cf. Hos. 12:1.
 
 88Ps. 41:4.
 
 89John 5:14.
 
 90Ps. 51:17.
 
 91Vindicianus; see below, Bk. VII, Ch. VI, 8.
 
 92James 4:6; 1 Peter 5:5.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
