not for the sons of men.
 
 CHAPTER III 3. And truly this earth was invisible and unformed,459 and there was an inexpressibly profound abyss460 above which there was no light since it had no form.
 
 Thou didst command it written that “darkness was on the face of the deep.”461 What else is darkness except the absence of light? For if there had been light, where would it have been except by being over all, showing itself rising aloft and giving light? Therefore, where there was no light as yet, why was it that darkness was present, unless it was that light was absent? Darkness, then, was heavy upon it, because the light from above was absent; just as there is silence where there is no sound. And what is it to have silence anywhere but simply not to have sound? Hast thou not, O Lord, taught this soul which confesses to thee? Hast thou not thus taught me, O Lord, that before thou didst form and separate this formless matter there was nothing: neither color, nor figure, nor body, nor spirit? Yet it was not absolutely nothing; it was a certain formlessness without any shape.
 
 CHAPTER IV 4. What, then, should that formlessness be called so that somehow it might be indicated to those of sluggish mind, unless we use some word in common speech?
 
 But what can be found anywhere in the world nearer to a total formlessness than the earth and the abyss? Because of their being on the lowest level, they are less beautiful than are the other and higher parts, all translucent and shining.
 
 Therefore, why may I not consider the formlessness of matter—which thou didst create without shapely form, from which to make this shapely world—as fittingly indicated to men by the phrase, “The earth invisible and unformed”?
 
 CHAPTER V 5. When our thought seeks something for our sense to fasten to [in this concept of unformed matter], and when it says to itself, “It is not an intelligible form, such as life or justice, since it is the material for bodies; and it is not a former perception, for there is nothing in the invisible and unformed which can be seen and felt”—while human thought says such things to itself, it may be attempting either to know by being ignorant or by knowing how not to know.
 
 CHAPTER VI 6. But if, O Lord, I am to confess to thee, by my mouth and my pen, the whole of what thou hast taught me concerning this unformed matter, I must say first of all that when I first heard of such matter and did not understand it—and those who 459It is interesting that Augustine should have preferred the invisibilis et incomposita of the Old Latin version of Gen. 1:2 over the inanis et vacua of the Vulgate, which was surely accessible to him.
 
 Since this is to be a key phrase in the succeeding exegesis this reading can hardly have been the casual citation of the old and familiar version. Is it possible that Augustine may have had the sensibilities and associations of his readers in mind—for many of them may have not known Jerome's version or, at least, not very well?
 
 460Abyssus, literally, the unplumbed depths of the sea, and as a constant meaning here, "the depths beyond measure." 461Gen. 1:2.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
