CHAPTER XX

29. How do I look for you, God? When I look for you, I want to find a happy life. I want to find you so my soul can live. My body lives because my soul lives, and my soul lives because of you. So how do I find a happy life? It’s not happy until I can truly say, “This is enough. I’m happy now.” How do I find it? Is it by trying to remember something I forgot, but also knowing I forgot it? Or do I look for it like it’s something new I never knew or completely forgot? Everyone wants to be happy, right? But where did they learn about happiness so much that they want it? Where have they seen it to love it so much?

Somehow, it’s true that we have happiness, but I don’t know how.

It’s true that when someone gets what they want, they feel happy.

Some people are happy because they hope to be happy. This hope is not as good as actually being happy, but it’s better than not being happy or hoping at all. But even these hopeful people must have known happiness in some way to want it so much. How they know happiness, I don’t know. Maybe it’s from memories, but I’m not sure. If it is from memory, then maybe we were happy once before — maybe each of us, or maybe the first person who made a mistake and caused us all to be born with sadness.

I won’t ask how this works now, but I do want to know if happiness is in our memories.

If we didn’t know happiness, we wouldn’t want it. We just hear the word “happiness” and know we want it — we don’t just like the word itself.

For example, if a Greek person hears the word “happiness” in Latin, they don’t feel happy because they don’t understand it. But if they heard the word in Greek, they would feel happy. Happiness isn’t about words like Greek or Latin; it’s something everyone wants no matter their language. Everyone knows happiness, and if we all were asked if we want to be happy, we would all say yes. This wouldn’t happen if happiness wasn’t in our memories.

CHAPTER XXI

30. But is this memory like the kind you have when you remember seeing a city like Carthage? No, because happiness isn’t something you can see with your eyes. Is it like remembering numbers? No, because when someone understands numbers, they don’t keep trying to get more. We know a little about happiness and love it, but we still want to keep trying to be happy.

Is the memory of happiness like remembering how to speak well? No. Even if some people hear the word “speaking well” and think about it, they might not be good at it. Many people want to be good speakers because they’ve seen others do it and liked it.
