BOOK FOUR  
This is the story of the years he spent with the Manicheans. It talks about his teaching in Tagaste, having a girlfriend, being interested in astrology, and the sad loss of a friend that made him think deeply about grief and how life changes. He also talks about his first book, De pulchro et apto, and how he started reading Aristotle’s Categories and other philosophy and theology books, which he learned easily but didn’t really benefit much from.

CHAPTER I  
1. For nine years, from when I was nineteen to twenty-eight, I made a lot of mistakes and led others to do the same. I was tricked and I tricked others in different lustful ways—sometimes openly, by teaching what people call “the liberal arts”; sometimes secretly, pretending it was religion. In one way, I was proud of myself; in the other, I was superstitious; in all, I was full of pride! Publicly, I chased after empty fame, even trying to get applause like actors, joining poetry contests, and going after meaningless awards and wild desires. Privately, I tried to clean myself from these bad habits by giving food to people called “elect” and “holy,” hoping they would turn it into angels and gods for us, and set us free. I did all this with friends who were also tricked, both by me and with me. Let the proud laugh at me, and those who haven’t yet been humbled by you, God. Still, I want to admit my shame for your glory. Please be patient with me and help me remember my past mistakes so I can give you thanks. What am I without you but someone leading myself to failure? Even at my best, I depend on you, the food that never goes away. What is any person, since we are only human? So, let the strong laugh at us, but we who are “poor and needy” will confess to you.

CHAPTER II  
2. During those years, I taught how to speak well. Wanting to make money, I sold speaking skills to help people win over others. But, Lord, you know I really wanted honest students (or at least those thought to be honest), and without tricks, I taught them how to speak—not to hurt innocent people, but sometimes to help guilty ones. And you, God, watched me from far away, stumbling on a slippery path but showing some loyalty amid the confusion—leading those who loved pride and lies, while I was with them.

In those years, I had a girlfriend, even though we weren’t married.

She was a woman I found in my wild passions, even though they were empty.
