devotedly fear thee. Therefore “thou resistest the proud but givest grace to the humble.”383 Thou thunderest down on the ambitious designs of the world, and “the foundations of the hills” tremble.384 And yet certain offices in human society require the officeholder to be loved and feared of men, and through this the adversary of our true blessedness presses hard upon us, scattering everywhere his snares of “well done, well done”; so that while we are eagerly picking them up, we may be caught unawares and split off our joy from thy truth and fix it on the deceits of men. In this way we come to take pleasure in being loved and feared, not for thy sake but in thy stead. By such means as this, the adversary makes men like himself, that he may have them as his own, not in the harmony of love, but in the fellowship of punishment—the one who aspired to exalt his throne in the north,385 that in the darkness and the cold men might have to serve him, mimicking thee in perverse and distorted ways.
 
 But see, O Lord, we are thy little flock. Possess us, stretch thy wings above us, and let us take refuge under them. Be thou our glory; let us be loved for thy sake, and let thy word be feared in us. Those who desire to be commended by the men whom thou condemnest will not be defended by men when thou judgest, nor will they be delivered when thou dost condemn them. But when—not as a sinner is praised in the wicked desires of his soul nor when the unrighteous man is blessed in his unrighteousness—a man is praised for some gift that thou hast given him, and he is more gratified at the praise for himself than because he possesses the gift for which he is praised, such a one is praised while thou dost condemn him. In such a case the one who praised is truly better than the one who was praised. For the gift of God in man was pleasing to the one, while the other was better pleased with the gift of man than with the gift of God.
 
 CHAPTER XXXVII 60. By these temptations we are daily tried, O Lord; we are tried unceasingly.
 
 Our daily “furnace” is the human tongue.386 And also in this respect thou commandest us to be continent. Give what thou commandest and command what thou wilt. In this matter, thou knowest the groans of my heart and the rivers of my eyes, for I am not able to know for certain how far I am clean of this plague; and I stand in great fear of my “secret faults,”387 which thy eyes perceive, though mine do not. For in respect of the pleasures of my flesh and of idle curiosity, I see how far I have been able to hold my mind in check when I abstain from them either by voluntary act of the will or because they simply are not at hand; for then I can inquire of myself how much more or less frustrating it is to me not to have them.
 
 This is also true about riches, which are sought for in order that they may minister to one of these three “lusts,” or two, or the whole complex of them. The mind is able to see clearly if, when it has them, it despises them so that they may be cast aside and it may prove itself.
 
 But if we desire to test our power of doing without praise, must we then live wickedly or lead a life so atrocious and abandoned that everyone who knows us will detest us? What greater madness than this can be either said or conceived? And yet if praise, both by custom and right, is the companion of a good life and of good 3831 Peter 5:5.
 
 384Cf. Ps. 18:7, 13.
 
 385Cf. Isa. 14:12-14.
 
 386Cf. Prov. 27:21.
 
 387Cf. Ps. 19:12.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
