Alypius thought that Catholics believed God was so wrapped in flesh that Christ had no soul, and he didn’t think Christ had a human mind. Because Alypius believed that only a living, thinking being could do the things Christ did, he was slow to accept the Christian faith. But when he found out that this idea was wrong and came from a group called the Apollinarians, he was happy and accepted the Catholic faith.

For me, it took even longer to understand that the Catholic belief in the phrase “The Word was made flesh” is different from the false ideas of Photinus. Arguing against wrong teachings helped me see the true beliefs of the Church clearly. “There must be heresies so that those who are faithful can be known among the weak.”

After reading the books of the Platonists and learning from them to look for truth beyond the physical world, I began to understand how invisible things can be known through what is made. Even when I was confused, I felt what my dull soul couldn’t fully grasp. I was sure that God exists and is infinite, not spread out in space but always the same without changing. Everything comes from God, and this is clear because things exist.

I believed all this but was too weak to truly enjoy God. I acted like I knew everything, but if I hadn’t found the way to God through Christ, my knowledge would have destroyed me. I had started to want to seem smart instead of feeling sorry for my ignorance. Where was the love that comes from humility and is built on Jesus Christ? When would those books teach me that?

Now I think God wanted me to read those books before studying the Scriptures, so I could remember how they affected me. Then, after the Scriptures healed me, I could see the difference between pride and honest confession—between those who knew their goal but not the path, and the true Way that leads not just to seeing but living in the blessed land.

If I had first learned from the Scriptures and loved them, then read those books, they might have pushed me away from true godliness. Or, if I had stayed firm in what I learned from the Scriptures, I might have wrongly thought that wisdom could be found just in those books.
