Where was that wise old woman and her strict rule now? Could anything beat our secret problem if your help, Lord, didn’t protect us? Even when parents and caregivers are gone, you are still here—you create, call, and do good for us through those in charge.

What did you do then, God? How did you heal her and make her whole again? Didn’t you bring out a harsh but helpful insult from another woman’s heart, like a surgeon’s knife, to cut away all the bad stuff? The slave girl who went with her to the cellar started arguing with her young mistress and called her a “drunkard,” which was a very mean insult. Hurt by this, my mother saw her fault and quickly rejected it.

Just like friends’ compliments can mess you up, sometimes enemies’ insults can teach you something important.

But you repay people not for the good you do through them, but for the bad they meant. That angry slave girl wanted to make her mistress mad, not help her heal. She spoke up only when they were alone, maybe because they just happened to argue then, or maybe because she was scared of getting into trouble for telling later.

But you, Lord, who control everything, use one person’s wrong to heal another’s heart. So no one should think their own words fixed someone else if that person changes because of what someone else said.

She was raised modestly and wisely, obeying her parents more by your will than theirs. When she grew up, she married a husband and served him like a lord.

She worked to bring him closer to you by showing your goodness through her actions. You made her kind and respectful, and her husband admired her. Even when he was unfaithful, she was patient and never fought with him. She waited for your mercy to help him change and be faithful.

Though he was a good friend, he got angry often. She learned not to fight back when he was mad, either with words or actions. When he calmed down, she would explain herself if he had been unreasonable. Many wives with gentler husbands showed marks from being hit and complained in private, but she blamed their sharp words, joking seriously that from the day they got married, they should think of their husbands as their masters. So, they should never fight against them.

Because she dealt with such an angry husband without any marks or rumors of fights, people were amazed. When they asked her how, she shared her rule. Those who followed it agreed it was wise and were happy; those who didn’t suffered.

Even her mother-in-law, who first disliked her because of nasty gossip from servants, was won over by her patient and humble attitude. In the end, the mother-in-law told her son about the servants who caused trouble and asked him to punish them.
