Not knowing about the Great Bear constellation is like not understanding something important in the sky. It's silly to think that a man who seems faithful could be worse than someone who knows a lot about the stars and the universe but forgets about the one who made everything with perfect order.

Who told Mani to write about these things? Knowing about stars and planets isn’t really needed to be truly religious. You said, “Being godly is being wise,” and Mani might have missed this even if he knew all the other stuff perfectly. But since he didn’t even understand those things and still tried to teach them, it’s clear he didn’t really know what being godly means. Even if we know a lot about the world, it’s stupid to show off if we don’t confess and respect God. Mani drifted away from true godliness, and his fake learning made smart people see how little he actually knew. He didn’t want to be ignored; instead, he tried to convince people that the Holy Spirit lived inside him and gave him full power. But when he made obvious mistakes about the sky and stars—things not even part of religion—it showed how proud and foolish he was. He not only talked about things he didn’t understand but also twisted them and acted like he was speaking for God.

When I hear about a Christian brother who doesn’t know these things or is wrong about them, I don’t mind. Not knowing about how the world works won’t hurt him much, as long as he doesn’t believe anything bad about you, Lord, the Creator of all. But if he thinks his knowledge about the world is as important as true godliness, or if he speaks confidently about things he doesn’t understand, that’s a problem. Still, in the early days of our faith, we accept some mistakes until people grow and learn not to be fooled by every new idea. But Mani acted like he was the teacher, the author, the leader for all who believed him. His followers thought they were following not a regular man, but the Holy Spirit itself. Who wouldn’t say that this kind of madness, once proven wrong, should be hated and completely rejected? At first, I wasn’t sure if the changes in day and night, the seasons, and eclipses could fit with his ideas. If they could, I might have still doubted whether his ideas were right or wrong. But I was ready to believe him because people said he was godly.
