Yet they are necessary for those to whom thy most prudent servant could not speak as to the spiritually mature, but only as if to carnal men—even though he could speak wisdom among the perfect.594 Still the natural man—as a babe in Christ, and a drinker of milk, until he is strong enough for solid meat, and his eye is able to look into the sun—do not leave him in a lightless night. Instead, let him be satisfied with the light of the moon and the stars. In thy book thou dost discuss these things with us wisely, our God—in thy book, which is thy “firmament”—in order that we may be able to view all things in admiring contemplation, although thus far we must do so through signs and seasons and in days and years.
 
 CHAPTER XIX 24. But, first, “wash yourselves and make you clean; put away iniquity from your souls and from before my eyes”595—so that “the dry land” may appear. “Learn to do well, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow,”596 that the earth may bring forth the green herb for food and fruit-bearing trees. “And come, let us reason together, saith the Lord”597—that there may be lights in the firmament of heaven and that they may shine upon the earth.
 
 There was that rich man who asked of the good Teacher what he should do to attain eternal life. Let the good Teacher (whom the rich man thought a man and nothing more) give him an answer—he is good for he is God. Let him answer him that, if he would enter into life, he must keep the commandments: let him put away from himself the bitterness of malice and wickedness; let him not kill, nor commit adultery, nor steal, nor bear false witness598—that “the dry land” may appear and bring forth the honoring of fathers and mothers and the love of neighbor. “All these,” he replied, “I have kept.” Where do so many thorns come from, if the earth is really fruitful? uproot the brier patch of avarice; “sell what you have, and be filled with fruit by giving to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven; and follow” the Lord if you would be perfect and joined with those in whose midst he speaketh wisdom—who know how to give rightly to the day and to the night—and you will also understand, so that for you also there may be lights in the firmament of heaven-which will not be there, however, unless your heart is there also. And your heart will not be there unless your treasure is there,599 as you have heard from the good Teacher. But “the barren earth”600 was grieved, and the briers choked the word.601 25. But you, O elect people, set in the firmament of the world,602 who have forsaken all that you may follow the Lord: follow him now, and confound the mighty! Follow him, O beautiful feet,603 and shine in the firmament, that the heavens may declare his glory, dividing the light of the perfect ones604—though not 594Cf. 1 Cor. 3:1; 2:6.
 
 595Isa. 1:16.
 
 596Isa. 1:17.
 
 597Isa. 1:18.
 
 598Cf. for this syntaxis, Matt. 19:16-22 and Ex. 20:13-16.
 
 599Cf. Matt. 6:21.
 
 600I.e., the rich young ruler.
 
 601Cf. Matt. 13:7.
 
 602Cf. Matt. 97 Reading here, with Knöll and the Sessorianus, in firmamento mundi.
 
 603Cf. Isa. 52:7.
 
 604Perfectorum. Is this a conscious use, in a Christian context, of the distinction he had known so well among the Manicheans—between the perfecti and the auditores?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
