ordering them and turning them toward form,510 but not because thy joy had to be perfected by them. For thou art perfect, and their imperfection is displeasing.
 
 Therefore were they perfected by thee and became pleasing to thee—but not as if thou wert before that imperfect and had to be perfected in their perfection. For thy good Spirit which moved over the face of the waters511 was not borne up by them as if he rested on them. For those in whom thy good Spirit is said to rest he actually causes to rest in himself. But thy incorruptible and immutable will—in itself allsufficient for itself—moved over that life which thou hadst made: in which living is not at all the same thing as living happily, since that life still lives even as it flows in its own darkness. But it remains to be turned to him by whom it was made and to live more and more like “the fountain of life,” and in his light “to see light,”512 and to be perfected, and enlightened, and made blessed.
 
 CHAPTER V 6. See now,513 how the Trinity appears to me in an enigma. And thou art the Trinity, O my God, since thou, O Father—in the beginning of our wisdom, that is, in thy wisdom born of thee, equal and coeternal with thee, that is, thy Son—created the heaven and the earth. Many things we have said about the heaven of heavens, and about the earth invisible and unformed, and about the shadowy abyss—speaking of the aimless flux of its being spiritually deformed unless it is turned to him from whom it has its life (such as it is) and by his Light comes to be a life suffused with beauty. Thus it would be a [lower] heaven of that [higher] heaven, which afterward was made between water and water.514 And now I came to recognize, in the name of God, the Father who made all these things, and in the term “the Beginning” to recognize the Son, through whom he made all these things; and since I did believe that my God was the Trinity, I sought still further in his holy Word, and, behold, “Thy Spirit moved over the waters.” Thus, see the Trinity, O my God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, the Creator of all creation!
 
 CHAPTER VI 7. But why, O truth-speaking Light? To thee I lift up my heart—let it not teach me vain notions. Disperse its shadows and tell me, I beseech thee, by that Love which is our mother; tell me, I beseech thee, the reason why—after the reference to heaven and to the invisible and unformed earth, and darkness over the abyss—thy Scripture should then at long last refer to thy Spirit? Was it because it was appropriate that he should first be shown to us as “moving over”; and this could not have been said unless something had already been mentioned over which thy Spirit could be understood as “moving”? For he did not “move over” the Father and the Son, and he could not properly be said to be “moving over” if he were “moving over” nothing. Thus, what it was he was “moving over” had to be mentioned first 510Cf. Timaeus, 29D-30A, "He [the Demiurge-Creator] was good: and in the good no jealousy . . . can ever arise. So, being without jealousy, he desired that all things should come as near as possible to being like himself. . . . He took over all that is visible . . . and brought it from order to order, since he judged that order was in every way better" (F. M. Cornford, Plato's Cosmology, New York, 1937, p.
 
 33). Cf. Enneads, V, 4:1, and Athanasius, On the Incarnation, III, 3.
 
 511Cf. Gen. 1:2.
 
 512Cf. Ps. 36:9.
 
 513In this passage in Genesis on the creation.
 
 514Cf. Gen. 1:6.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
