Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters of the sea; and also the birds, so they should grow in number on the earth. I might say that this blessing only applies to creatures that come from their own kind, if I could find that it was also given as a blessing to trees, plants, or land animals. But "increase and multiply" was not said to plants, trees, animals, or snakes—even though all of these, along with fish, birds, and people, do actually grow in number by reproducing and keeping their species alive.

So, what can I say, O Truth, O my Life: was this said without meaning? Certainly not, O Father of goodness; I would never say something like that about your Word! But if I don’t fully understand what you mean by that phrase, then let those who know more than I do explain it better, since you gave each of us the ability to understand in different ways.

Still, I hope my words please you, because I believe, O Lord, that you did not speak without meaning. I won’t keep silent about what my reading has shown me. It makes sense, and I don’t see anything stopping me from interpreting the figurative sayings in your books this way. I know that one idea can be understood in many ways in the mind, and can be expressed in many different ways by the body. For example, the love of God and love for others is shown in many mysteries and countless languages, and in each language, in so many ways! In a similar way, the “young fish” in the “waters” grow and multiply.

If you read this, notice how Scripture says, and how the voice says it only one way: “In the beginning God created heaven and earth.” Isn’t this understood in many different true ways that don’t involve error? So, the children of humans are fruitful and multiply.

If we look at things literally and not as symbols, the phrase “Be fruitful and multiply” applies to all things made by seed. But if we think about these words as symbols, as I believe Scripture wants us to—since this blessing is only given to the offspring of sea creatures and humans—then we see that the idea of growing and increasing also applies to spiritual and physical creations (shown by “heaven and earth”), to good and bad souls (shown by “light and darkness”), to the holy writers who gave the law (shown by “the sky between the waters”), to the earthly world still full of troubles (shown by “the sea”), to the passion of holy souls (shown by “dry land”), to acts of kindness in life (shown by “plants and fruit trees”), to spiritual gifts that help us (shown by “the lights of heaven”), and to feelings controlled by self-control (shown by “the living soul”). In all these cases, we see growth and increase, but the way “Be fruitful and multiply” happens is very different. A single idea can have many different examples.
