good because thou hast given them to us—we may find our rest in thee in the Sabbath of life eternal.653 CHAPTER XXXVII 52. For then also thou shalt so rest in us as now thou workest in us; and, thus, that will be thy rest through us, as these are thy works through us. But thou, O Lord, workest evermore and art always at rest. Thou seest not in time, thou movest not in time, thou restest not in time. And yet thou makest all those things which are seen in time—indeed, the very times themselves—and everything that proceeds in and from time.
 
 CHAPTER XXXVIII 53. We can see all those things which thou hast made because they are—but they are because thou seest them.654 And we see with our eyes that they are, and we see with our minds that they are good. But thou sawest them as made when thou sawest that they would be made.
 
 And now, in this present time, we have been moved to do well, now that our heart has been quickened by thy Spirit; but in the former time, having forsaken thee, we were moved to do evil.655 But thou, O the one good God, hast never ceased to do good! And we have accomplished certain good works by thy good gifts, and even though they are not eternal, still we hope, after these things here, to find our rest in thy great sanctification. But thou art the Good, and needest no rest, and art always at rest, because thou thyself art thy own rest.
 
 What man will teach men to understand this? And what angel will teach the angels? Or what angels will teach men? We must ask it of thee; we must seek it in thee; we must knock for it at thy door. Only thus shall we receive; only thus shall we find; only thus shall thy door be opened.656 653Cf. this requiescamus in te with the requiescat in te in Bk. I, Ch. I.
 
 654Cf. The City of God, XI, 10, on Augustine's notion that the world exists as a thought in the mind of God.
 
 655Another conscious connection between Bk. XIII and Bks. I-X.
 
 656This final ending is an antiphon to Bk. XII, Ch. I, 1 above.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
