Alypius was with me, finally done with his legal job after three terms as an assessor. Now he was waiting for private clients to whom he could sell his legal advice, just like I sold the skill of speaking (even though I wasn’t really teaching it). But Nebridius agreed, because of our friendship, to teach under Verecundus—a grammar teacher from Milan who was a close friend of all of us. Verecundus really wanted our help and, as a friend, expected it from us.

Nebridius didn’t do this for money—he could have earned much more if he wanted to—but because he was a kind and good friend, he didn’t want to ignore our request. He was careful about this, though, and made sure not to become known to famous people in the world. This way, he avoided distractions and saved as much time as possible to study, read, or listen to talks about wisdom.

One day, Nebridius was away for some reason I can’t remember. Then, a man named Ponticianus, who was from our part of Africa and had an important job at the emperor’s court, came to visit Alypius and me at our house.

I don’t know why he came, but we started talking. He saw a book on the game table in front of us and picked it up. He opened it, expecting it to be one of my boring rhetoric books, but it was actually a book by the apostle Paul. He smiled and was happy and surprised to find this book there because he was a Christian and prayed daily in church.

When I told him I had spent a lot of time reading these writings, we started talking about Anthony, an Egyptian monk whose name was famous among Christians but was new to me. When Ponticianus found out I didn’t know about him, he talked more about this amazing man, amazed that we were unaware. We were amazed to hear about the great things happening recently in the true faith and the Catholic Church. We all wondered—he wondered why we hadn’t heard of these things, and we wondered how such great things were happening.

From there, Ponticianus talked about the many people living in monasteries and how much God liked their way of life. He told us about the quiet, lonely places in the wilderness, which we didn’t know about. He even said there was a monastery outside Milan’s city walls, full of good brothers cared for by Ambrose—and we didn’t know about it.

He continued his story, and we listened quietly. He told us how, one afternoon in Trier, when the emperor was watching gladiator games, he and three friends went for a walk in the gardens near the city walls. They split up into pairs.

Two of them found a small house where some of God’s servants lived—people who were “poor in spirit” and part of the Kingdom of Heaven. There, they found a book about the life of Anthony. One of them started reading it, amazed and inspired. While reading, he thought about living like Anthony—giving up his job to follow God alone.

These two men worked as secret service agents for the government. Suddenly, one of them was filled with a holy love and shame, and looking seriously at his friend, he said, “Please tell me, what is the goal we’re all trying to reach with all this hard work?”
