CHAPTER IX 10. But was neither the Father nor the Son “moving over the waters”? If we understand this as a motion in space, as a body moves, then not even the Holy Spirit “moved.” But if we understand the changeless supereminence of the divine Being above every changeable thing, then Father, Son, and Holy Spirit “moved over the waters.” Why, then, is this said of thy Spirit alone? Why is it said of him only—as if he had been in a “place” that is not a place—about whom alone it is written, “He is thy gift”? It is in thy gift that we rest. It is there that we enjoy thee. Our rest is our “place.” Love lifts us up toward that place, and thy good Spirit lifts our lowliness from the gates of death.521 Our peace rests in the goodness of will. The body tends toward its own place by its own gravity. A weight does not tend downward only, but moves to its own place. Fire tends upward; a stone tends downward. They are propelled by their own mass; they seek their own places. Oil poured under the water rises above the water; water poured on oil sinks under the oil. They are moved by their own mass; they seek their own places. If they are out of order, they are restless; when their order is restored, they are at rest. My weight is my love. By it I am carried wherever I am carried. By thy gift,522 we are enkindled and are carried upward. We burn inwardly and move forward. We ascend thy ladder which is in our heart, and we sing a canticle of degrees523; we glow inwardly with thy fire—with thy good fire524—and we go forward because we go up to the peace of Jerusalem525; for I was glad when they said to me, “Let us go into the house of the Lord.”526 There thy good pleasure will settle us so that we will desire nothing more than to dwell there forever.527 CHAPTER X 11. Happy would be that creature who, though it was in itself other than thou, still had known no other state than this from the time it was made, so that it was never without thy gift which moves over everything mutable—who had been borne up by the call in which thou saidst, “Let there be light: and there was light.”528 For in us there is a distinction between the time when we were darkness and the time when we were made light. But we are not told what would have been the case with that creature if the light had not been made. It is spoken of as though there had been something of flux and darkness in it beforehand so that the cause by which it was made to be otherwise might be evident. This is to say, by being turned to the unfailing Light it might become light. Let him who is able understand this; and let him who is not ask of thee. Why trouble me, as if I could “enlighten every man that comes into the world”529?
 
 521Cf. Ps. 9:13.
 
 522The Holy Spirit.
 
 523Canticum graduum. Psalms 119 to 133 as numbered in the Vulgate were regarded as a single series of ascending steps by which the soul moves up toward heaven; cf. The Exposition on the Psalms, loc. cit.
 
 524Tongues of fire, symbol of the descent of the Holy Spirit; cf. Acts 2:3, 4.
 
 525Cf. Ps. 122:6.
 
 526Ps. 122:1.
 
 527Cf. Ps. 23:6.
 
 528Gen. 1:3.
 
 529John 1:9.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
