Even when Augustine’s ideas are really complicated, or when he uses tricky stories to explain things (like in Confessions, Book XIII, or Enchiridion, XVIII), he always tries to connect with his readers honestly and respectfully. He doesn’t want to find the truth all by himself. He wants others to see and use the truth too.

He isn’t someone who just believes blindly. Even when things are mysterious, he trusts human reason, even if it’s limited, and he always tries to make things clear and understandable. Because of this, he followed his own idea called “Christian Socratism,” which he explained in his works De Magistro and De catechezandis rudibus.

Even Augustine’s best writing shows it was written a long time ago, and some parts are only interesting to experts. There are many confusing parts for people today—whether they are religious or not. But if you pay close attention, you can see how brilliant and devoted he was. His work still moves us and invites us to join him in his life’s mission: to search for and celebrate God’s grace and glory, which help guide believers toward the true Light.

The most helpful version of the Confessions is by Pierre de Labriolle (fifth edition, Paris, 1950). I compared this with other important editions by Martin Skutella (Leipzig, 1934), based on Pius Knöll’s earlier text (Vienna, 1896), and the second edition by John Gibb and William Montgomery (Cambridge, 1927).

There are two good versions of the Enchiridion, which I also compared: one by Otto Scheel (second edition, Tübingen, 1930) and another by Jean Rivière in the Bibliothèque Augustinienne (Paris, 1947).

I want to thank the General Editors of this Library for their helpful support; Professor Hollis W. Huston, who read the whole manuscript and gave many great suggestions; and Professor William A. Irwin, who helped a lot with parts of the Enchiridion. They helped fix many mistakes, but any remaining errors are my responsibility. Professors Raymond P. Morris, Robert Beach, and Decherd Turner were very kind in helping with bibliographies. Finally, Mrs. Hollis W. Huston and my wife worked hard to prepare the final version. I’m very thankful to all of them.
