away from our eyes the fog with which thou hast covered them. In them567 is that testimony of thine which gives wisdom even to the little ones. O my God, out of the mouth of babes and sucklings, perfect thy praise.568 For we know no other books that so destroy man’s pride, that so break down the adversary and the self-defender who resists thy reconciliation by an effort to justify his own sins. I do not know, O Lord, I do not know any other such pure words that so persuade me to confession and make my neck submissive to thy yoke, and invite me to serve thee for nothing else than thy own sake. Let me understand these things, O good Father. Grant this to me, since I am placed under them; for thou hast established these things for those placed under them.
 
 18. There are other waters that are above this firmament, and I believe that they are immortal and removed from earthly corruption. Let them praise thy name-this super-celestial society, thy angels, who have no need to look up at this firmament or to gain a knowledge of thy Word by reading it—let them praise thee.
 
 For they always behold thy face and read therein, without any syllables in time, what thy eternal will intends. They read, they choose, they love.569 They are always reading, and what they read never passes away. For by choosing and by loving they read the very immutability of thy counsel. Their book is never closed, nor is the scroll folded up, because thou thyself art this to them, and art this to them eternally; because thou didst range them above this firmament which thou madest firm over the infirmities of the people below the heavens, where they might look up and learn thy mercy, which proclaims in time thee who madest all times. “For thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens, and thy faithfulness reaches to the clouds.”570 The clouds pass away, but the heavens remain. The preachers of thy Word pass away from this life into another; but thy Scripture is spread abroad over the people, even to the end of the world. Indeed, both heaven and earth shall pass away, but thy words shall never pass away.571 The scroll shall be rolled together, and the “grass” over which it was spread shall, with all its goodliness, pass away; but thy Word remains forever572—thy Word which now appears to us in the dark image of the clouds and through the glass of heaven, and not as it really is. And even if we are the well-beloved of thy Son, it has not yet appeared what we shall be.573 He hath seen us through the entanglement574 of our flesh, and he is fair-speaking, and he hath enkindled us, and we run after his fragrance.575 But “when he shall appear, then we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.’’576 As he is, O Lord, we shall see him—although that time is not yet.
 
 CHAPTER XVI 19. For just as thou art the utterly Real, thou alone dost fully know, since thou art immutably, and thou knowest immutably, and thou willest immutably.
 
 567"The heavens," i.e. the Scriptures.
 
 568Cf. Ps. 8:2.
 
 569Legunt, eligunt, diligunt.
 
 570Ps. 36:5.
 
 571Cf. Matt. 24:35.
 
 572Cf. Isa. 40:6-8.
 
 573Cf. 1 John 3:2.
 
 574Retia, literally "a net"; such as those used by retiarii, the gladiators who used nets to entangle their opponents.
 
 575Cf. S. of Sol. 1:3, 4.
 
 5761 John 3:2.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
