Sometimes I only fell a little, so it wasn’t too bad; but other times, getting rescued hurt a lot because I was stuck really tight.

CHAPTER XXXV

54. There’s another kind of temptation that’s even trickier and more dangerous. Besides wanting to enjoy all kinds of physical pleasures—which can make people lose themselves—there’s also a kind of curious feeling in the soul. This feeling comes from the body’s senses but hides under the name of wanting to learn and know more. It’s not about enjoying the body but about wanting new experiences through the body.

This feeling starts because we want to learn, and since seeing is our main way to learn, it’s called “the lust of the eyes.” Seeing is what our eyes do, but we also use the word “see” for other senses when we try to learn something. We don’t say, “Listen how it glows” or “Smell how it shines,” but we say, “See how it sounds” or “See how it tastes.” So, all the senses looking for knowledge are called “the lust of the eyes” because seeing is the main sense we use.

55. From this, we can tell if our senses want pleasure or just curiosity. Pleasure wants things that are pretty, nice sounding, good smelling, tasty, or soft. But curiosity wants to try new things, even if they’re the opposite and might be uncomfortable, just to learn and experiment.

For example, what pleasure is there in looking at a badly hurt or dead body that makes you scared? Still, if one is nearby, people gather around it like they want to feel sad or scared. People even worry about seeing such things in their dreams, just like if someone forced them to look or if they heard a story that made them curious.

It’s the same with other senses, but it would take too long to explain everything. This sickness of curiosity is why people watch weird things in theaters. It’s also why we try to discover secret powers of nature that don’t really help us, and why people want to learn about things just for the sake of knowing. This wrong kind of curiosity is also why some try magic or ask God for signs and wonders—not to be saved, but just to test Him.

56. In this huge, dangerous place full of traps, look at how many of these temptations I have cut out of my heart, thanks to you, God of my salvation. Yet, when can I say I’m completely free from these feelings? So many things like this still pop up in our daily lives. I don’t get attracted to theaters anymore, I don’t care to study the stars, and I have never tried to get answers from spirits.
