11. “Listen to me, God! People’s sins are so bad!” When someone says this, you show them mercy because you made the person, not the sin inside them. Who remembers the sins I did when I was a baby? In your eyes, no one is without sin, not even a baby who has lived only one day. Who reminds me of these sins? Isn’t it every little child, when I see things in them that I don’t remember about myself? How did I sin back then? Was it when I cried for milk? If I cried like that now—not for milk, but for food I need—I would be laughed at and told off. What I did then deserved being told off, but since I didn’t understand, no one could really blame me. As we grow up, we stop these childish habits. But I’ve never seen a wise person throw away the good things while trying to get rid of the bad. Even then, it wasn’t good to try to get what I wanted by crying, especially if it would have hurt me. It wasn’t right to get angry at those who were older and wiser for not giving in to my demands. Was it good to try to hurt them because they didn’t obey me, even though obeying me would have hurt me? So, a baby’s innocence is because their body is weak, not because their mind is pure. I’ve seen babies get jealous even though they can’t talk; one baby was very upset watching another baby drink milk.

Who doesn’t know this? Moms and nurses say they fix these problems somehow. But is it really innocence when a baby won’t share milk that another baby needs to live? We forgive these things because they will go away with time. Even though these are faults, and not small ones, they disappear as the child grows. We accept these things in babies, but no one would put up with them in an adult.

12. So, Lord my God, you gave life to babies and their bodies with senses, limbs, beauty, and all the power they need to be healthy. You tell me to praise you and thank you, and to sing your name, Most High. You are God, all-powerful and good, even if you had done nothing else but these things, which only you can do—you alone made everything beautiful and made sure everything follows your rules.

I don’t want to think much about that part of my life I don’t remember, Lord, when I have to trust what others say or guess what babies are like. It’s like the time I spent in my mother’s womb, which I can’t remember at all. But if “I was made sinful from the very start, and my mother fed me with sin in her womb,” where, God, was I ever innocent? But I won’t think about that time because I can’t remember it.

13. Didn’t I grow out of being a baby into a little kid? Or didn’t that time come after my baby days? My baby days didn’t disappear (where would they go?). They just weren’t happening anymore, and I was no longer a baby.
