my lamp; the Lord my God will lighten my darkness”108; and “of his fullness have we all received,”109 for “that was the true Light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world”110; for “in thee there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.”111 26. But I pushed on toward thee, and was pressed back by thee that I might know the taste of death, for “thou resistest the proud.”112 And what greater pride could there be for me than, with a marvelous madness, to assert myself to be that nature which thou art? I was mutable—this much was clear enough to me because my very longing to become wise arose out of a wish to change from worse to better-yet I chose rather to think thee mutable than to think that I was not as thou art.
 
 For this reason I was thrust back; thou didst resist my fickle pride. Thus I went on imagining corporeal forms, and, since I was flesh I accused the flesh, and, since I was “a wind that passes away,”113 I did not return to thee but went wandering and wandering on toward those things that have no being—neither in thee nor in me, nor in the body. These fancies were not created for me by thy truth but conceived by my own vain conceit out of sensory notions. And I used to ask thy faithful children—my own fellow citizens, from whom I stood unconsciously exiled—I used flippantly and foolishly to ask them, “Why, then, does the soul, which God created, err?” But I would not allow anyone to ask me, “Why, then, does God err?” I preferred to contend that thy immutable substance was involved in error through necessity rather than admit that my own mutable substance had gone astray of its own free will and had fallen into error as its punishment.
 
 27. I was about twenty-six or twenty-seven when I wrote those books, analyzing and reflecting upon those sensory images which clamored in the ears of my heart. I was straining those ears to hear thy inward melody, O sweet Truth, pondering on “the beautiful and the fitting” and longing to stay and hear thee, and to rejoice greatly at “the Bridegroom’s voice.”114 Yet I could not, for by the clamor of my own errors I was hurried outside myself, and by the weight of my own pride I was sinking ever lower. You did not “make me to hear joy and gladness,” nor did the bones rejoice which were not yet humbled.115 28. And what did it profit me that, when I was scarcely twenty years old, a book of Aristotle’s entitled The Ten Categories116 fell into my hands? On the very title of this I hung as on something great and divine, since my rhetoric master at Carthage and others who had reputations for learning were always referring to it with such swelling pride. I read it by myself and understood it. And what did it mean that when I discussed it with others they said that even with the assistance of tutors—who not only explained it orally, but drew many diagrams in the sand—they scarcely understood it and could tell me no more about it than I had acquired in the reading of it by myself alone? For the book appeared to me to speak plainly enough about substances, such as a man; and of their qualities, such as the shape of a man, 108Ps. 18:28.
 
 109John 1:16.
 
 110John 1:9.
 
 111Cf. James 1:17.
 
 112Cf. James 4:6; 1 Peter 5:5.
 
 113Ps. 78:39.
 
 114Cf. Jer. 25:10; 33:11; John 3:29; Rev. 18:23.
 
 115Cf. Ps. 51:8.
 
 116The first section of the Organon, which analyzes the problem of predication and develops "the ten categories" of essence and the nine "accidents." This existed in a Latin translation by Victorinus, who also translated the Enneads of Plotinus, to which Augustine refers infra, Bk. VIII, Ch. II, 3.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
