CHAPTER XXV  
32. I admit to you, Lord, that I still don’t really understand what time is.  

I also admit, Lord, that I know I’m talking about time right now, and that I have already talked about time for a long while. But “a long time” only means something when we measure it by time itself. So, how do I know this if I don’t really know what time is? Or maybe I don’t even know how to explain what I do understand? Oh no! I don’t even know how much I don’t know. See, God, I’m being honest with you. I speak from my heart.  

You will bring light to my life, Lord—you will clear away my confusion.  

CHAPTER XXVI  
33. My soul truly admits that I do measure time in some way. But what exactly am I measuring, God? How can I measure something if I don’t know what it is? I measure how long it takes for something to move from one place to another by time, but I don’t actually measure time itself. But honestly, could I measure how long something moves if I didn’t measure time?  

So, how do I measure time itself? Do I measure a long time by using a shorter time, like measuring the length of a piece of wood with smaller units? For example, we say a long syllable is twice as long as a short one. We measure the length of poems by lines, the lines by parts called feet, the feet by syllables, and the long syllables by short ones.  

But this doesn’t give a perfect way to measure time because if you say a shorter poem slowly, it might take longer than a longer poem said quickly. The same goes for verses, feet, or syllables.  

It seems to me that time is just “spread out” or stretched out, but I don’t know what exactly is stretched. Maybe it’s the mind itself that is stretched. What am I really measuring when I say, “This time is longer than that,” or “This is twice as long as that”?  

I know I’m measuring time, but I’m not measuring the future because it hasn’t happened yet. I’m not measuring the present because it doesn’t have any length. I’m not measuring the past because it’s already gone. So, what is it that I’m measuring? Is it time passing, but not past time? This is what I have been trying to say.  

CHAPTER XXVII  
34. Keep thinking hard, mind, and pay close attention. God is here to help us.
