The Jesuits started many colleges, including one at La Flèche where Descartes studied. Hume stayed near there when writing his Treatise. Some people, especially their enemies called the Jansenists, said Jesuits used tricky arguments to avoid strict Christian rules, especially to please rich donors. That’s why the word ‘Jesuitical’ means being sneaky or clever in a dishonest way.

At the battle of Pharsalia in Greece in 48 BC, Julius Caesar beat Pompey. This ended the First Triumvirate wars and made Caesar the main ruler of Rome. Later, at the battle of Philippi in Macedonia in 42 BC, Mark Antony and Octavian (who later became Emperor Augustus) defeated Brutus and Cassius, who had killed Caesar. This ended the Second Triumvirate wars.

Herodotus was a Greek writer from about 484 to 425 BC. People call him ‘The Father of History’, but some say he made up stories. His book, Histories, talks about how the Persian Empire grew and how Xerxes tried to conquer Greece but was defeated at Salamis and Plataea in 480 and 479 BC.

Juan de Mariana was a Spanish Jesuit who wrote a history of Spain in 1592 that included reports of miracles. Saint Bede, a monk from Northumbria around 672 to 735, wrote about the life and miracles of St. Cuthbert, full of miracle stories. But his famous work, Ecclesiastical History of the English People, is more reliable and was used a lot by Hume in his History of England.

The Latin phrase avidum genus auricularum means ‘a race with eager little ears’. It comes from a line by Lucretius, which says humans love to tell stories that grab people’s attention.

In the first two editions of Hume’s Enquiry (1748 and 1750), he said more strongly that no proof for any kind of miracle could ever be likely or believable.

Queen Elizabeth I ruled England from 1558 to 1603. She was popular because she brought peace and some religious tolerance after the country was divided by fights between Protestants and Catholics under her half-brother Edward VI and half-sister Mary.

Lord Bacon and Livy are mentioned in other notes. The Pentateuch is the name for the first five books of the Hebrew Bible: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy.
