This was taken further by René Descartes (or ‘Des Cartes’)— widely considered the first great early modern philosopher—and it was his ‘Cartesian’ mechanics that was to dominate the thought of much of the seventeenth century.
 
 Galileo and Descartes between them established a new way of understanding the physical world, replacing purposive strivings (what Aristotle had called ‘final’ causes) by mathematically formulated laws framed exclusively in terms of mechanical, ‘efficient’ causation. The new science took bodies to be essentially passive, their movement changing according to the action of external forces. Left to themselves, bodies will simply maintain their state of rest or uniform linear motion, this so-called inertiaapplying equally whether the body is stationary or moving in any direction (so the concept of naturalplace or direction is completely abandoned). A body’s motion changes only when it is acted upon by a force, though the precise magnitude of the force associated with changes of movement remained a matter of controversy.5 Descartes’s vision of mechanics had an elegant simplicity, and also a reassuring air of intelligibility. In place of Aristotle’s five elements with their somewhat arbitrary ‘natural’ tendencies, Descartes substituted a single type of matter, whose essence(i.e. central defining quality) he identified as simple spatial extension(i.e. geometrical size). All the fundamental properties of matter then supposedly follow logically from this essence, in a way intelligible to our rational (and immaterial) minds; for example, extension implies no power of initiating change, so matter’s passivity and inertia are fully explained.6This approach also provided an ingenious solution to the resulting problem of accounting for the motion of the planets as well as cannon balls. If the essence of matter is extension, then empty space—that is, extension due to air resistance. In 1971, David Scott of Apollo 15performed Galileo’s experiment on the Moon, showing that a hammer and a feather indeed fall at the same rate in the absence of air.
 
 5 The so-called vis vivacontroversy is alluded to by Hume in the Enquiry, at E7.29 endnote [E].
 
 6 This is of course only a brief caricature of Descartes’s position. He was far less rationalist about the practical conduct of scientific enquiry, viewing experiment as the means of discovering which mechanisms are actually operative in nature. Note also that he sees mind as a substance quite distinct from matter, whose essence is thoughtrather than extension. For a typically forthright Humean dismissal of such ‘substance dualism’, see the beginning of his essay ‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’ (Appendix II, below).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
