§4 of the Introduction, above). It claims that human choice is entirely free and undetermined, but that nevertheless God knows in advance what any possible person woulddo in any possiblecircumstances. This counterfactual ‘middle knowledge’ enables Him to arrange things providentially by deciding which possibilities to actualize, without infringing the freedom of those individuals He decides to create.Anne Le Francwas supposedly cured of blindness and paralysis after offering prayers to Abbé Paris.
 
 THIBAUT. . . DE SYLVA: the reported healing of Marguerite Thibault was attested by Montgeron and the Recueil, and investigated by the physician Jean-Baptiste Silva (1682‒1742) on Hérault’s instructions.
 
 the resource of the JEWS: Jews had dismissed the miracles of Jesus and his apostles as witchcraft.
 
 JERICHO. . . St. PAUL: the biblical book of Joshua (6: 1‒20) reports that the walls of the besieged city of Jericho collapsed in response to the sounding of ram’s horn trumpets, on divine instructions. The Israelites under Joshua then slaughtered virtually everyone in the city (and even the animals), in accordance with the extreme genocidal policy prescribed by God in Deuteronomy (7:2,20:16‒17). According to the Acts of the Apostles (16: 25‒6), an earthquake shook the prison where St Paul and his companion Silas were held, opening all the doors and unfastening the chains.
 
 Duc de CHATILLON: Paul Sigismond de Montmorency (1663‒1731), mentioned in the published Recueil.
 
 PORT-ROYAL: the Abbey of Port-Royal near Paris became during the 1630s a centre for Jansenism through the influence of Jean Duvergier de Hauranne, the main proponent of French Jansenism. Its teaching and textbooks became renowned, in particular Logicor The Art of Thinking (1662) by Antoine Arnauld (1612‒94) and Pierre Nicole (1625‒95), widely known as the Port-Royal Logic, which presented a Cartesian approach to Aristotelian logic. With the final suppression of Jansenism by the French King Louis XIV and the Pope, the community of PortRoyal was forcibly dispersed in 1709. Shortly afterwards, the buildings were destroyed and even the corpses in the cemetary dug up to be thrown into a nearby common grave.
 
 PASCAL: Blaise Pascal (1623‒62), a notable mathematician and theologian, was a frequent visitor to Port-Royal, where from 1651his sister Jacqueline was a nun. He is now most famed for ‘Pascal’s Wager’, his notorious suggestion that belief in God is justifiable on pragmatic grounds, even if the evidence is very poor, by weighing up the prospective posthumous benefits of belief (i.e. heaven), and costs of unbelief (i.e. hell).
 
 RACINE: Jean Racine (1639‒99), educated at Port-Royal, was one of the most celebrated seventeenth-century French dramatists (along with Notes to Pages 129–131 209 Molière and Corneille).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
