Hobbes had maintained that our will is indeed thus determined, and Hume agrees, but his distinctive contribution to the debate is to provide a new argument for this claim, appealing to the understanding of ‘necessity’ reached in Section VII: Our idea . . . of necessity and causation arises entirely from the uniformity, observable in the operations of nature; where similar objects are constantly conjoined together, and the mind is determined by custom to infer the one from the appearance of the other. . . . Beyond the constant conjunction of similar objects, and the consequent inferencefrom one to the other, we have no notion of any necessity, or connexion. (E8.5) Most of Part i of Section VIII is devoted to making the case that human actions manifest such uniformity, that they are generally recognized as doing so, and that people standardly perform inductive inferences accordingly. Hence ‘all mankind . . . have . . . acknowledged the doctrine of necessity, in their whole practice and reasoning’, even while ‘profess[ing] the contrary opinion’ (E 8.21). Hume attributes this mismatch to men’s ‘propensity to believe, that they penetrate farther into the powers of nature, and perceive something like a necessary connexion between the cause and the effect’. Such penetration is, of course, an illusion (as shown in Sections IV and VII), and it is this recognition that provides the key to properly understanding the necessity of human actions. In learning that the necessity of physical operations amounts to no more than constant conjunction and consequent inference, we come to see that humanactions too are subject to the same necessity.
 
 While making this case, Hume in passing develops his view of inductive science, as sketched earlier in Section IV (E4.12). We should look for causal relations that are entirely constant (E 8.13), seeking for deeper laws that underlie superficial irregularities. And we should do this not only in natural philosophy but in the human realm also, with equal expectation of success.
 
 In Part ii of Section VIII, Hume turns to address the consequences of his determinist world-view for morality and religion. He starts (E 8.27) by re-emphasizing that his most distinctive contribution is to undermine the supposed metaphysical necessity of the physicalworld, rather than to propose any novel understanding of human action. He then goes on to argue for another distinctive claim (E8.28–30): that xlviii Introduction viewing human behaviour as causally determined, so far from being contrary to morality, is actually essential to it, since blame and punishment are appropriate only where actions are caused by the agent’s durable character and disposition.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
