APPENDIX V  
‘My Own Life’  

[WRITTEN in the year he died, when Hume knew his illness was serious, he sent this to his printer William Strahan to include in the next edition of his works. But it was published separately in 1777. This text comes from that original publication, with a few small fixes made by comparing it to Hume’s handwritten copy in the National Library of Scotland.]

THE LIFE OF DAVID HUME, Esq.  
written by himself  

A few months before he died, Mr. Hume wrote this short story about his life. In a note added to his will, he asked that it be put at the start of the next edition of his Works. That edition couldn’t be published for a long time. So the editor decided to publish it separately to help people who bought the older editions and to satisfy the public’s curiosity. They didn’t change anything, not even the title, which was written by Hume himself on the cover of the manuscript.

MY OWN LIFE  

[1] It’s hard for someone to talk about themselves without sounding proud, so I’ll be quick. Some might think it’s proud of me to write about my life at all, but this story will mostly be about my writings because I have spent almost my whole life working on books and ideas. Most of my writings didn’t become popular right away, so I don’t have much to brag about.

[2] I was born on April 26, 1711, old style, in Edinburgh. I came from a good family on both my father’s and mother’s sides. My father’s family was related to the Earl of Home, or Hume, and my ancestors owned the estate that my brother now has for many generations. My mother was the daughter of Sir David Falconer, who was head of the College of Justice. Her brother inherited the title Lord Halkerton.

[3] But my family wasn’t rich. Since I was a younger brother, I didn’t get much inheritance, which was normal in my country. My father, who was known as a smart man, died when I was a baby. I grew up with my older brother and sister, cared for by our mother. She was an amazing woman who, even though she was young and pretty, gave all her time and energy to raising and teaching us.
