Hence the appeal of this sort of ‘mechanical philosophy’ was not confined to the followers of Descartes.
 
 3. Corpuscularianism, Locke, and Newton A less rationalistic form of mechanism was inspired by the atomism of the ancient Epicurean school, and championed initially by the Frenchman Pierre Gassendi. However, it flourished better in Britain, whose natural philosophers tended to be suspicious of the Cartesian attempt to derive scientific principles from pure reason, and followed Francis Bacon in emphasizing the role of experimentation. Robert Boyle, one of the most influential scientists of the seventeenth century,7 advocated what he called ‘corpuscularianism’, a name that avoided the atheistic associations of Epicurean atomism. Boyle’s interest in chemistry led him to speculate that material substances are composed of imperceptible ‘corpuscles’ whose physical interactions on the atomic scale are responsible for the large-scale perceived properties. All corpuscles are formed from the same ‘universal matter’, and the various properties of different substances arise from the way in which these minute corpuscles are organized: their individual size, shape, and motion, and the resulting texture. It is only these so-called ‘primary’ qualities that feature in the physical theory, and they are to be distinguished from ‘secondary’ qualities such as an object’s colour, taste, or smell, which represent the effects of the object on the human senses rather than anything genuinely intrinsic to it. Because the primary qualities are essentially geometrical (and hence mathematically describable), this theory—like that of Descartes—held out the promise of explaining objects’ behaviour in terms of straightforward mechanical interactions whose results could potentially be calculated. But unlike Descartes, Boyle took matter’s fundamental properties to include impenetrability as independent of extension. This opened the possibility of penetrable extension (i.e. extension without matter), thus enabling a distinction to be drawn between atoms and empty space, and avoidingthe Cartesian plenum.
 
 Boyle’s corpuscularianism became philosophical orthodoxy in Britain through the work of his friend John Locke, a philosopher destined to 7 It seems that Boyle was a major focus of natural philosophy teaching in Edinburgh when Hume studied there in 1724–5.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
