If I have remedy’d this inconvenience in any degree, I have attain’d my end. The book seem’d to me to have such an air of singularity, and novelty as claim’d the attention of the public; especially if it be found, as the Author seems to insinuate, that were his philosophy receiv’d, we must alter from the foundation the greatest part of the sciences. Such bold attempts are always advantageous in 644 the republic of letters, because they shake offthe yoke of authority, accustom men to think for themselves, give new hints, which men of genius may carry farther, and by the very opposition, illustrate points, wherein no one before suspected any difficulty.
 
 The Author must be contented to wait with patience for some time before the learned world can agree in their sentiments of his performance. ’Tis his misfortune, that he cannot make an appeal to the people, who in all matters of common reason and eloquence are found so infallible a tribunal. He must be judg’d by the Few, whose verdict is more apt to be corrupted by partiality and prejudice, especially as no one is a proper judge in these subjects, who has not often thought of them; and suchare apt to form to themselves systems of their own, which they resolve not to relinquish. I hope the Author will excuse me for intermeddling in this affair, since my aim is only to encrease his auditory, by removing some difficulties, which have kept many from apprehending his meaning. I have chosen one simple argument, which I have carefully traced from the beginning to the end. This is the only point I have taken care to finish.
 
 The rest is only hints of particular passages, which seem’d to me curious and remarkable.
 
 645 AN ABSTRACT OF A BOOK lately Published;entituled, A Treatise of Human Nature, &c.
 
 This book seems to be wrote upon the same plan with several other works that have had a great vogue of late years in England. The philosophical spirit, which has been so much improved all over Europewithin these last fourscore years, has been carried to as great a length in this kingdom as in any other. Our writers seem even to have started a new kind of philosophy, which promises more both to the entertainment and advantage of mankind, than any other with which the world has been yet acquainted. Most of the philosophers of antiquity, who treated of human nature, have shewn more of a delicacy of sentiment, a just sense of morals, or a greatness of soul, than a depth of reasoning and reflection. They content themselves with representing the common sense of mankind in the strongest lights, and with the best turn of thought and expression, without following out steadily a chain of propositions, or forming the several truths into a regular science. But ’tis at least worth while to try if the science of AbstractofA Treatise of Human Nature 135 manwill not admit of the same accuracy which several parts of natural philosophy are found susceptible of.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
