224 Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers Though often thought of as empiricist in outlook (for example, he denies innate principles), Hobbes is in many respects rather close to Descartes, with considerable emphasis on the role of logical demonstration—as opposed to experiment—in science. He also follows Descartes in viewing the physical world as a plenum (see §2of the Introduction). But he conspicuously differs in his materialism, denying the intelligibility of Descartes’s immaterial mental substance, and viewing all minds—both human and divine—as material things. This provoked widespread accusations of ‘atheist’ and ‘Epicurean’, with ‘Hobbist’ becoming a comparable term of abuse in the seventeenth century. Hence Hume’s reluctance to make reference to Hobbes’s views, except when he has something critical to say (e.g.
 
 Treatise1.3.3.4n,Moral Enquiry3.15n), as when summing Hobbes up in theHistory of England(vi.153): Hobbes’s politics are fitted only to promote tyranny, and his ethics to encourage licentiousness. Though an enemy to religion, he partakes nothing of the spirit of scepticism; but is as positive and dogmatical as if human reason, and his reason in particular, could attain a thorough conviction in these subjects. Clearness and propriety of style are the chief excellencies of Hobbes’s writings.
 
 Bacon and Gassendi: Precursors of Modern Empiricism Francis Bacon (1561‒1626) was a prominent lawyer and politician under Queen Elizabeth I and James I of England, rising to the position of Lord Chancellor. He also wrote on history, science, and scientific method, the latter works being strongly critical of Aristotelianism and its emphasis on logical deduction from first principles. Bacon instead advocated an inductive, empirical approach based largely on ‘eliminative’ methods (i.e. identifying the correct hypothesis by experimentally ruling out alternatives).
 
 He is mentioned approvingly by Hume in the introduction to the Treatise, described as ‘the father of experimental physicks’ in the second paragraph of the Abstract, and quoted in the Enquiryat10.39. This last paragraph is of particular interest for its implication that the sceptical attitude which Hume shows towards miracles is not to be confined either to religious contexts or to allegedly unique events, but is also to be extended to ‘every thing that is to be found in the writers of natural magic or alchimy’, and hence presumably what we would now call ‘New Age’ or allegedly paranormal phenomena.
 
 Pierre Gassendi (1592‒1655) was a French philosopher and scientist, best known today for his authorship of a set of Objections to Descartes’s Meditations, but in his time arguably the first modern empiricist. Influenced both by Epicurus and scepticism, he attacked Aristotle, denied innate ideas, emphasized sense experience as the source of all ideas and knowledge, and displayed a Lockean agnosticism about the essences of things.
 
 He also anticipated Hume’s views about the reason of animals, though Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers 225 whether Hume ever read him is doubtful.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
