e. natural philosophy or science] is nothing but a more regular and methodical operation of the same kind. To philosophise on such subjects is nothing essentially different from reasoning on common life; and we may only expect greater stability, if not greater truth, from our philosophy, on account of its exacter and more scrupulous method of proceeding. (D134, pp. 154‒5below) Hume’s scepticism thus leaves room for a scientific approach founded on modest inductive systematization, but the sceptical thrust remains in what is excluded. All knowledge of matter of fact beyond what we immediately perceive and remember depends on causation (E 4.4), while causal laws—whether concerning the operations of matter (E 4.6–13, 7.6–8) or mind (E 7.9–20)—are discoverable only by experience. ‘If we reason à priori, any thing may appear able to produce any thing’ (E 12.29). Hence rational insight into the nature of things is a hopeless fantasy, and it is impossible a priori to prove the existence of God, or indeed of anything else (E12.13,12.28–9).
 
 Thus a priori demonstration is limited to the abstract realm of ideas, but only in mathematics are our ideas sufficiently precise to make demonstrative argument genuinely fruitful (E 12.27). The upshot of all this is to limit the worthwhile fields of investigation to mathematics (which is a priori but concerns only relations of ideas) and inductive empirical science (which concerns matters of fact but is uncertain and empirical). Any work that purports to transcend these limits, by establishing matters of fact with demonstrative certainty—what Immanuel Kant would later call ‘synthetic a priori knowledge’—can therefore be roundly condemned, as Hume expresses in his famous concluding paragraph: When we run over libraries, persuaded of these principles, what havoc must we make? If we take in our hand any volume; of divinity or school metaphysics, for instance; let us ask, Does it contain any abstract reasoning containing quantity or number?No.Does it contain any experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence? No. Commit it then to the flames: for it can contain nothing but sophistry and illusion. (E12.34) NOTE ON THE TEXT Whatis now known as Hume’s firstEnquirywas originally published in 1748, by Andrew Millar of the Strand, London, under the title Philosophical Essays concerning Human Understanding.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
