TEXTUAL VARIANTS Section I (note to1.14) n. 1 Mr. Hutcheson: Francis Hutcheson (1694‒1746), Professor of Moral Philosophy at Glasgow University, who influentially attributed moral judgements to a ‘moral sense’ analogous to our perception of secondary qualities such as colours and tastes. He was keen to insist, against Hobbes, that humans do not always act selfishly, but have natural feelings of benevolence. Hence beneficial actions bring pleasure and approval, which is the source of the moral sense. Hutcheson applied a similar theory to aesthetics, and it seems likely that his approach influenced the young Hume in at least these fields. Norman Kemp Smith—the most notable Hume scholar of the early twentieth century— speculated that the influence went even deeper, and that Hutcheson might have inspired the central thrust of Hume’s philosophy, that even in epistemology we must rely on feeling rather than rational perception.
 
 Section I of Hutcheson’s Illustrations upon the Moral Sense(1728) mentions ‘the common Division of the Faculties of the Soul’. According to this taxonomy, Reason and Will are primary, with the Senses subordinate to Reason and the Passions to the Will. Reason’s role is to present ‘the natures and relations of things, antecedently to any Act of Will or Desire’, which corresponds well to Hume’s description of it in this note as ‘That Faculty, by which we discern Truth and Falshood’ (cf.
 
 Treatise3.1.1.9).
 
 n. 2 See Butler’s Sermons: Joseph Butler (1692‒1752), theologian and Anglican bishop, best known for The Analogy of Religion (1736), of which Hume thought highly despite his disagreements. Hume was anxious to win Butler’s good opinion, and for this reason removed his most contentious religious claims from the Treatise (see pp. 161‒2).
 
 The note to Butler alludes to the argument stressed in his Sermon XI on Romans 13: 9, ‘Upon the Love of our Neighbour’, though Hume’s interpretation of ‘interested’ puts it somewhat paradoxically. The central point is that in acting selfishly one acts to satisfy some desire— perhaps for food, riches, personal success, companionship, another’s well-being, or whatever—and that selfish action therefore presupposes some desire other thanpure self-interest. Therefore it is impossible to reduce all desires to self-interest; indeed, self-interest depends upon havingothermore basic desires. These more basic desires can perfectly well be benevolent as well as self-directed; indeed both Butler and Hume are emphatic that humans are naturally inclined towards fellow feeling with others, and hence concern for their well-being.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
