xx Introduction continued, and even Newton himself speculated that gravity might be accounted for by some sort of ‘etherial active fluid’ permeating space (as mentioned by Hume at E7.25endnote [D]). However, there are also hints in his writings, made louder and more explicit in his followers, that the very unintelligibility of gravity has religious significance as an argument for God’s existence, since only the continuous power of an almighty being could keep the world working in conformity with a law for which there is no conceivable mechanical explanation.
 
 4. Free Will, and the Dangers of Infidelity Throughout this period, religion exerted a profound influence over all philosophical and scientific speculation. No philosopher or scientist could afford to ignore the religious implications of his work, and many were attacked on account of their supposed heresy or ‘infidelity’.
 
 Galileo’s punishment by the Inquisition provides the most famous example, deemed heretical for stating that the Earth orbits the Sun and thus contradicting scriptural texts such as ‘The Lord . . . has established the world; it shall never be moved’ (Psalm 93:1) and the famous creation story in Genesis (according to which ‘the heaven and the earth’ are created ‘in the beginning’, and the Sun is not made until the fourth day). Hearing of Galileo’s condemnation, Descartes withheld his own projected treatise The World, and took great pains to exclude anything unorthodox from his published writings. But this did not save his works from being added (in 1663) to the Roman Catholic Index of Prohibited Books, a list that came to include almost every significant work of post-medieval Western philosophy. His offence seems to have been an implicit denial of the doctrine of transubstantiation, that in the ceremony of the Eucharist commemorating the Last Supper, consecrated bread and wine are literally changed in substance into the body and blood of Christ. Such a claim made some sense within the Aristotelian scheme, but ceased to be feasible within a physics such as Descartes’s or Locke’s that saw the perceptible ‘secondary’ qualities of things (their colour, taste, smell, etc.) as caused directly by their underlying ‘primary’ or mechanical structure.
 
 Another theological minefield, raising problems for both Roman Catholics and Protestants, concerned the question of free will. The growth of empirical science, and the mechanical philosophy in Introduction xxi particular, put increasing emphasis on laws of nature and the clockwork predictability of physical phenomena.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
