SECTION IV 25 Sceptical Doubts concerning the Operations of the Understanding PART I All the objects of human reason or enquiry may naturally be divided into two kinds, to wit, Relations of Ideas, and Matters of Fact.* Of the first kind are the sciences of Geometry, Algebra, and Arithmetic; and in short, every affirmation, which is either intuitively or demonstratively certain. That the square of the hypothenuse is equal to the square of the two sides, is a proposition, which expresses a relation between these figures.That three times five is equal to the half of thirty, expresses a relation between these numbers. Propositions of this kind are discoverable by the mere operation of thought, without dependence on what is any where existent in the universe. Though there never were a circle or triangle in nature, the truths, demonstrated by Euclid,* would for ever retain their certainty and evidence.
 
 [2] Matters of fact, which are the second objects of human reason, are not ascertained in the same manner; nor is our evidence of their truth, however great, of a like nature with the foregoing. The contrary of every matter of fact is still possible;* because it can never imply a contradiction, and is conceived by the mind with the same facility and distinctness, as if ever so conformable to reality. That 26 thesun will not rise to-morrowis no less intelligible a proposition, and implies no more contradiction, than the affirmation, that it will rise.
 
 We should in vain, therefore, attempt to demonstrate its falsehood.
 
 Were it demonstratively false, it would imply a contradiction, and could never be distinctly conceived by the mind.
 
 [3] It may, therefore, be a subject worthy of curiosity, to enquire what is the nature of that evidence, which assures us of any real existence and matter of fact, beyond the present testimony of our senses, or the records of our memory. This part of philosophy, it is observable, has been little cultivated, either by the ancients or moderns; and therefore our doubts and errors, in the prosecution of so important an enquiry, may be the more excusable; while we march through such difficult Sceptical Doubts 19 paths, without any guide or direction.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
