(HLi.38–9) To James Oswald of Dunnikier, from Ninewells, 2October1747 [Eight years after the publication of the Treatise, Hume is now relatively unconcerned about the implications of publishing an ‘infidel’ book, though he reveals that ‘Harry’ (i.e. Henry Home) has seen the manuscript of the Philosophical Essays(i.e. the first edition of the Enquiry) and disapproves.
 
 The1748letter to Henry Home himself makes similar points.] . . .I have some thoughts of . . .printing the Philosophical Essays I left in your hands. Our friend, Harry, is against this, as indiscreet. But in the first place, I think I am too deep engaged to think of a retreat. In the second place, I see not what bad consequences follow, in the present age, from the character of an infidel; especially if a man’s conduct be in other respects irreproachable. What is your opinion? (HLi.106) To Henry Home, from London, 9February1748 I leave here two works going on, a new edition of my Essays . . .
 
 The other work is the Philosophical Essays, which you dissuaded me from printing. I won’t justify the prudence of this step, any other way than by expressing my indifference about all the consequences that may follow. . . . (HLi.111) To Gilbert Elliot of Minto, March or April 1751 [Having published the Philosophical Essays (i.e. the first Enquiry), Hume advises a close philosophical friend that it is far superior to the Treatise, which he now clearly regrets publishing.] I believe the philosophical Essays contain every thing of Consequence relating to the Understanding, which you woud meet with in the Treatise; & I give you my Advice against reading the latter. By shortening & simplifying the Questions, I really render them much more complete. Addo dum minuo. The philosophical Principles are the same in both: But I was carry’d away by the Heat of Youth & Invention to publish too precipitately. So vast an Undertaking, plan’d before I was one and twenty, & compos’d before twenty five, must necessarily be very defective. I have repented my Haste a hundred, & a hundred times. (HLi.158) To John Stewart, February 1754 [Stewart had taken Hume to be denying the Causal Maxim in Treatise1.3.3, and after correcting him on this point, Hume continues with some comments indicating that he no longer has any interest in a second edition of the Treatise.] 164 Appendix IV Where a man of Sense mistakes my Meaning, I own I am angry: But it is only at myself: For having exprest my Meaning so ill as to have given Occasion to the Mistake.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
