162 Appendix IV Tho as that was a popular Argument I have spread it out much more than the other Parts of the Work. I beg of you to show it to no Body . . . & let me know at your Leizure that you have receiv’d it, read it, & burnt it. . . .
 
 Your Thoughts & mine agree with Respect to Dr Butler, & I wou’d be glad to be introduc’d to him. I am at present castrating my Work, that is, cutting off its noble Parts, that is, endeavouring it shall give as little Offence as possible; before which I cou’d not pretend to put it into the Drs hands. This is a Piece of Cowardice, for which I blame myself; tho I believe none of my Friends will blame me. But I was resolv’d not to be an Enthusiast, in Philosophy, while I was blaming other Enthusiasms. If ever I indulge any ’twill be when I tell that I am Dear Sir Yours.
 
 david hume. (NHL2) To Henry Home, from Ninewells, 1June1739 [Barely four months after the publication of Books I and II of the Treatise, and with disappointing news of sales, Hume is already expressing doubts about the wisdom of publication.] I am now out of Humour with myself; but doubt not in a little time to be only out of Humour with the World, like other unsuccessful Authors.
 
 After all, I am sensible of my Folly in entertaining any Discontent, much more Despair upon this Account; since I cou’d not expect any better from such abstract Reasoning, nor indeed did I promise myself much better. My Fondness for what I imagin’d new Discoveries made me overlook all common Rules of Prudence; & having enjoy’d the usual Satisfaction of Projectors, tis but just I shou’d meet with their Dissappointments. (NHL5) To Francis Hutcheson, from Ninewells, 16March1740 [The following year, Hume’s dissatisfaction with the Treatise is clear, as he longs for the opportunity to make corrections in a second edition (which in fact never occurred).] I wait with some Impatience for a second Edition principally on Account of Alterations I intend to make in my Performance. This is an Advantage, that we Authors possess since the Invention of Printing & rendersthe Nonum prematur in annum not so necessary to us as to the Antients. Without it I shoud have been guilty of a very great Temerity to publish at my Years so many Noveltys in so delicate a Part of Philosophy: And at any Rate I am afraid, that I must plead as my Excuse that very Circumstance of Youth, which may be urg’d against me. I assure you, that without running any of the heights of Scepticism, I am apt, in a cool hour, to suspect, in general, that most of my Reasonings will be more useful by furnishing Hints & exciting People’s Curiosity than as containing any Principles that will Excerpts from Hume’s Letters 163 augment the Stock of Knowledge that must pass to future Ages.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
