However, three hundred years ago it seemed even more intractable, because of the variety of theological issues with which it interlocked.
 
 Thus for example not only causal determinism, but also God’s creation and sustaining of the world from moment to moment (an idea much emphasized by Descartes), threatens to make Him responsible for everything that happens, including human sin. Denying determinism might ameliorate this difficulty, but would potentially cast doubt on both God’s omnipotence (by implying that some things happen by chance, independently of His decrees) and His omniscience (by making it utterly obscure how God could foresee a yet undetermined future). Another related issue involved the theology of grace and justification, sharpened by Protestant Reformers’ emphasis on the ‘original sin’ we inherit from Adam and Eve and our consequent total depravity that makes us all—even the most apparently virtuous—thoroughly deserving of eternal damnation. Following Augustine, the Reformers insisted that we can be saved from this fate only by the grace of God, which generously grants us salvation through faith in Christ, and not through any merit of our own.10But how is it that some achieve this saving faith whereas others do not, given that the distinction cannot be founded on their moral virtue? It seems that God must Himself choose on whom to bestow it, but then if He does so, how can this divine grace be anything other than irresistible?
 
 Considerations like these led many Protestants—most notably John Calvin—to the doctrine of predestination, implying that the choice of who is destined to go to heaven, and who to hell, was made by God from the beginning of time, quite irrespective of human merit.
 
 Opponents of Calvinism found this doctrine morally monstrous, whereby most of mankind (including Christians of rival sects) are doomed to inevitablehellfire owing to the sin of Adam, while God— who could very easily spare all of them from this eternal torture simply by granting them saving faith—in fact spares only very few.
 
 With eternal hellfire or salvation at stake, it is not surprising that religious disputes could become impassioned and aggressive. Hume himself, living in Calvinist Scotland, accordingly took care to avoid overt infidelity, for example suppressing his own potentially incendiary 10 The Roman Catholic Jansenists (who make an appearance in Section X of the Enquiry) took a similar approach, though most Catholic sects put greater emphasis on good works as also contributing to salvation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
