Material things were seen as intricate but lifeless machines, their cogs and levers static until set in motion by some external power. This picture would be undermined if a genuinely active power—such as thought, or possibly gravity—were to be ascribed to matter itself. In that case, the apparent need for an external source of power might be removed, with potentially dangerous implications for the existence of both God and a distinct, immaterial soul. So the inertness of matter became a prominent and theologically charged theme in much philosophical discussion, and was to remain so well into Hume’s time (e.g. in the work of Samuel Clarke and Andrew Baxter).
 
 Some metaphysicians took these sorts of considerations much further, to the extent of completely denying the causal relevance of matter, or even its very existence. Nicolas Malebranche, the most influential Cartesian of the late seventeenth century, built on Descartes’s idea that continual re-creation by God is necessary to sustain the world from moment to moment, drawing the conclusion that no real causal interaction takes place except through the intervention of God. On this account, when one billiard ball hits another, the second ball moves not because of any force in the first ball, but purely because God then chooses to re-create the second ball in an appropriate sequence of positions. The collision of the balls is not a causeof the movement, but an occasionfor God to bring about the relevant behaviour, in accordance with the behavioural laws that He has decreed.
 
 Hence this theory (described and criticized by Hume at E7.21–5) is called occasionalism. Another of Malebranche’s arguments for this theory was based on the common assumption—discussed above— that genuine causation should be intelligible. Interpreting intelligibility in a particularly strong sense, he insisted that an event can be a real cause only if it makes the subsequent non-occurrence of its effect inconceivable, so that the cause has a (logically) necessary connexion with its effect. Hence the collision of the first billiard ball with the second cannot possibly be the real cause of the second ball’s motion, because it would be perfectly conceivable for the one event not to be followed by the other. The only cause capable of satisfying this inconceivability requirement turns out to be the will of God, who is omnipotent and whose intentions are therefore infallibly fulfilled. So again we reach Malebranche’s desired conclusion, that God is the only true cause.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
