15endnote [N]). However, in overall metaphysical orientation, Berkeley’s immaterialismhas far more in common with the occasionalismof the Cartesian Malebranche (see above, and §6of the Introduction). Hume probably has both immaterialists and occasionalists in mind when he talks of ‘modern metaphysicians’ at 7.25 endnote [D], and perhaps in particular Andrew Baxter (1686‒1750), a Scottish occasionalist who lived near Hume for some time, corresponded with Hume’s kinsman Henry Home (see below), and expressed strong views about the inertness of matter and its theological implications.
 
 The Scottish Common-Sense Philosophers The philosophers in the ‘common-sense’ tradition produced their main works after—and in reaction to—Hume. However Kames, Reid, and Beattie all flourished in Hume’s lifetime, and all are mentioned in the letter extracts included in this volume (see Appendix IV, above).
 
 Henry Home (1696‒1782) was related to Hume, came from nearby in the Scottish Borders, and played the role of a mentor when Hume went to study in Edinburgh. In 1752he was appointed as a judge and took the title Lord Kames. Though best-known for his aesthetics (in which he takes a sentimentalist position), his Essays on the Principles of Morality and Natural Religion(1751) are of most relevance to the Enquiry. Here Kames argues for an anti-sceptical providential naturalism in which our natural intuitions and senses have been implanted by God as reliable guides, and are therefore to be taken as epistemologically authoritative.
 
 Thomas Reid (1710‒96), a friend of Kames who shared his providential naturalism and consequent respect for ‘common-sense’, was the most important critic of Hume during his lifetime. An Inquiry into the Human Mind on the Principles of Common Sense, published in 1764, systematically attacks the ‘theory of ideas’ so widely taken for granted by early modern philosophers, arguing that Hume’s ridiculously extreme scepticism is its logical result and thereby demonstrates its falsity. Reid directs all his fire at Hume’s Treatise, in which the theory of ideas plays a far larger role than in the Enquiry and the scepticism is far more corrosive. James Beattie (1705‒1803) likewise mainly attacked the Treatisein his abusive Essay on the Nature and Immutability of Truth of 1770, and it is possible that this partly provoked Hume’s public disavowal of the Treatise through his ‘Advertisement’ (see the letter to Strahan, 26October1775, in Appendix IV).
 
 Natural Philosophers (i.e. Scientists) Nicolaus Copernicus (1473‒1543) was a Polish astronomer and mathematician who devised the first modern formulation of a heliocentrictheory Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers 227 of the solar system (i.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
