I think the only things we can really prove perfectly are about quantity and numbers. Trying to use perfect proof for anything else is just tricking yourself. Since parts of quantity and numbers are very similar, their relationships can get complicated. It’s interesting and helpful to explore when they are equal or not, even if they look different.

But other ideas are clearly different from each other. No matter how hard we try, the most we can do is notice these differences and say one thing isn’t another. If it’s hard to decide, it’s usually because words aren’t clear, and that gets fixed with better definitions. For example, you can’t know that the square of the longest side of a triangle equals the sum of the squares of the other two sides just by defining the words—you need to do some reasoning.

But to understand that if there is no property, there can be no injustice, you just need clear definitions. This idea is really just a less perfect way of defining things.

It’s the same with all those fancy logical arguments you find in other subjects, except in the sciences of quantity and number. Those are the only real subjects where knowledge and proof work well.

All other questions people ask are about facts and whether something exists, and these can’t be proven perfectly. Something that exists might not exist. Saying something doesn’t exist doesn’t contradict anything. The idea of something not existing is just as clear as the idea of it existing. Saying something doesn’t exist might be false, but it still makes sense.

This is different from math and similar sciences. If a math statement isn’t true, it’s confusing and doesn’t make sense. For example, saying the cube root of 64 equals half of 10 is false and doesn’t make sense clearly. But saying Caesar or the angel Gabriel never existed might be false, but it still makes sense and doesn’t contradict anything.

So, to prove that something exists, you have to look at its cause or effect, and these proofs come entirely from experience. If you try to guess without experience, anything could seem possible. For example, a falling pebble could, in theory, put out the sun, or a man’s wish could control the planets.
