Hume sent this text to his printer William Strahan with a letter dated 26 October 1775 (see Appendix IV, p. 168) which indicates that the two writers he had mainly in mind were Thomas Reid and James Beattie: see under ‘Scottish Common-Sense Philosophers’ in the Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers and Philosophical Movements.
 
 never acknowledged: Hume talks of the Treatiseas ‘never acknowledged’ because he published it anonymously.
 
 the following Pieces: the ‘Advertisement’, though now standardly attached to the Enquiry concerning Human Understanding, was originally intended for the second volume of Hume’s Essays and Treatises on Several Subjects (1772and1777), which also contained A Dissertation on the Passions, the Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals, and The Natural History of Religion.
 
 SECTION I 1.1 Moral philosophy: ‘moral’ is here used in the common eighteenth-century sense, meaning related to the human sphere, rather than in the more usual modern sense of ethics. Hence Hume’s equation of ‘moral philosophy’ with ‘the science of human nature’.
 
 1.1 two different manners: Hume goes on to distinguish two different styles of philosophy, the ‘easy’ and the ‘abstruse’; see §8of the Introduction, above.
 
 1.2 his understanding: ‘understanding’ here is a noun rather than a verb, referring to a human faculty of the mind. In this sense, ‘the understanding’ is another name for the faculty of reason—whereby we discover truths— which was standardly distinguished from the will—whereby we form desires and intentions. See also explanatory notes to 2.1and to the Textual Variant to 1.14 (p.210).
 
 1.3 plebeian: a common or ordinary person (deriving from the Roman social class distinction between patricians, who were from noble families, and plebeiansorplebs).
 
 1.4 CICERO. . . LOCKE: Hume identifies Aristotle, Malebranche, and Lockeas ‘abstruse philosophers’; Cicero, La Bruyère, and Addison as more popular ‘easy philosophers’. For Aristotle, Malebranche, Locke, and Cicero, see Glossarial Index for more information. Jean de la Bruyère(1645‒96) was a French author, writing principally on moral issues. Joseph Addison (1672‒1719) was an English essayist and politician, best known today 186 Notes to Pages 5–9 for having founded The Spectator magazine (1711‒12) with Richard Steele.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
