That you may see I wou’d no way scruple of owning my Mistakes in Argument, I shall acknowledge (what is infinitely more material) a very great Mistake in Conduct, viz my publishing at all the Treatise of human Nature, a Book, which pretended to innovate in all the sublimest Parts of Philosophy, & which I compos’d before I was five & twenty. Above all, the positive Air, which prevails in that Book, & which may be imputed to the Ardor of Youth, so much displeases me, that I have not Patience to review it. But what Success the same Doctrines, better illustrated & exprest, may meet with, Ad huc sub judice lis est. (HLi.187) To the Abbé Le Blanc, from Edinburgh, 12September1754 [Le Blanc had translated Hume’s Political Discourses, and Hume writes to advise about the best editions of his other works, should Le Blanc also be interested in translating those. The second sentence confirms Hume’s awareness that the first Enquiryis both ‘bold’ (i.e. religiously daring) and ‘metaphysical’.] The Booksellers are reprinting in London the philosophical Essays; but the second Edition differs very little from this new one. I doubt these Essays are both too bold & too metaphysical for your Climate; tho’ we have lately, in some French Writers, been entertain’d with Liberties, that are not much inferior. (HLi.192) To the Reverend Hugh Blair, probably in the autumn of 1761 [Blair had been instrumental in sending Hume a manuscript of George Campbell’sDissertation on Miracles, which would be published in 1762. This letter gives Hume’s comments in reply, which throw interesting light on the material of EnquirySection X.] Sect. I. I would desire the author to consider, whether the medium by which we reason concerning human testimony be different from that which leads us to draw any inferences concerning other human actions; that is, our knowledge of human nature from experience? Or why is it different? I suppose we conclude an honest man will not lie to us, in the same manner as we conclude that he will not cheat us. As to the youthful propensity to believe, which is corrected by experience; it seems obvious, that children adopt blindfold all the opinions, principles, sentiments, and passions, of their elders, as well as credit their testimony; nor is this more strange, than that a hammer should make an impression on clay.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
