xii Introduction all provoked political, economic, and doctrinal instability. Finally the Reformation, starting with Martin Luther’s rebellion against the Church of Rome in 1517, led to widespread religious wars founded on philosophical differences: one side took Church authority and tradition as the criterion of truth, the other appealed instead to the Spirit of God acting within the individual believer. Suddenly traditional authority looked open to doubt, and the questions of the rediscovered ancient sceptics became highly relevant, inspiring natural philosophers (i.e.
 
 scientists) to examine the world with a more critical eye.
 
 Aristotelian physics and cosmology was based on the idea that material things have naturalmovements according to their elemental composition. The four terrestrial elements, earth, water, air, and fire, of which everything below the Moon is composed, striveto reach their natural place in the cosmos: earth at the centre, water in a sphere around the earth, then air and fire. Stones thus naturally fall towards the centre of the universe because they mainly consist of earth, while fire rises. Heavenly bodies such as the stars, however, are seen to move perpetually in circles around the Earth, implying that they are made of a fifth element, a celestial ‘ether’, which Aristotle took to be some kind of crystalline solid. Again these movements are driven by a teleological (i.e. purposive) striving: heavenly bodies eternally move in circles because this is the nearest they can approach to the pure actuality of God, the unmoved mover. Around the Earth at the centre of the universe, the Moon, planets, Sun, and stars are arranged in a series of concentric crystalline shells, forming a heavenly clockwork driven by the steady rotation of the outermost sphere, repeating its circuits eternally with perfect accuracy, while generating the dance of the planets as seen in the sky. However, the visible motion of the planets is in fact very far from being a steady circular movement around the sky: sometimes a planet will ‘regress’ for a time, moving backwards from day to day before turning again to continue in its usual direction.
 
 Accounting for this observed complexity requires much more than a simple pattern of circular orbits, and over the years the Aristotelian model was progressively refined, most notably with the addition of epicycles, or orbits around orbits. It eventually achieved definitive form through the work of Ptolemy around ad150, and was then destined to dominate European astronomy for almost 1,500years.
 
 In 1543 Nicolaus Copernicus famously advanced the theory that the Earth is a planet orbiting the Sun, but it was not until the early Introduction xiii seventeenth century that observational evidence became available to mount a decisive challenge to Ptolemaic astronomy.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
