12.13 Descartes made a surprising point: he said that because God doesn’t lie, we can trust our thinking abilities if we use them the right way.

12.15 Another skeptical idea: this argument is similar to one in Treatise 1.4.4 called ‘Of the modern philosophy’.

12.15 Only secondary: Locke talked about primary and secondary qualities, and Hume uses an argument from Berkeley against Locke’s idea. You can find more about Locke and Berkeley in the Introduction and Glossary.

12.15 Abstraction: Locke used the idea of abstraction to explain how we get general ideas. See the Introduction, page xvii.

12.15 Isosceles or scalene: an isosceles triangle has two equal sides, while a scalene triangle has all sides of different lengths.

Berkeley, in his Principles of Human Knowledge, made fun of Locke’s unclear idea of a triangle to criticize Locke’s idea of abstraction.

12.16 No skeptic... against it: The last sentence here was added in the final 1777 edition of the Enquiry, and its meaning isn’t clear. Hume seems to dismiss the idea of “some unknown cause” behind our thoughts but doesn’t call it nonsense. Instead, he says it’s so weak that it can’t support any strange or doubtful ideas about matter.

12.21 Pyrrhonism: see the Glossary.

12.22 More deep research: Hume sums up his argument from Section IV about doubts on how we understand things, also including lessons from Section VII.

He points out that the habit of expecting things to happen a certain way, like other habits, can be wrong or misleading. For a summary of Hume’s plan here, see the Introduction, page lv.

12.23 Copernican or Ptolemaic: see Section 1 of the Introduction.

12.23 Stoic or Epicurean: see the Glossary.

12.24 Result of this Pyrrhonism: since Pyrrhonian arguments can’t be beaten, Hume thinks they naturally lead us to a softer kind of skepticism, even if everyday life makes those arguments hard to believe.

12.25 Limits of our questions: see the part from the Dialogues (Appendix III) where Cleanthes doubts whether this advice really works.

12.25 Organized and fixed: see pages lv–lvi of the Introduction for a summary of how this scientific approach could work.
