No Indian person would have ever experienced water freezing in cold places. This is because it puts nature in a situation they don’t know about. They can’t say for sure what will happen before it actually does. It’s like trying a new experiment, and the result is always unsure. Sometimes you can guess what might happen based on similar things, but it’s still just a guess. In this case, freezing water doesn’t follow the usual pattern you’d expect. When water freezes, it suddenly changes from being very liquid to completely hard all at once. This is unusual and needs strong proof to be believed by people who live in warm climates. But it’s not impossible or against what we know about nature when the conditions are the same. People in Sumatra always see water stay liquid in their warm climate, so frozen rivers there would seem like a miracle. But they have never seen water in the cold winters of Muscovy, so they can’t really say what would happen there.

Sometimes, an event might not seem to break the laws of nature by itself. But if it really happened because of certain reasons, it could still be called a miracle because it goes against those laws. For example, if someone claiming to have divine power orders a sick person to get better, or a healthy person to suddenly die, or commands the rain to fall and the wind to blow, and these things happen right after, those would be miracles. That’s because these events really do go against how nature usually works.

If there’s any doubt that these events just happened by chance and not because of the command, then it’s not a miracle and nature’s laws haven’t been broken. But if that doubt is removed, then it clearly is a miracle and the laws of nature have been broken. It’s very strange to think that just a person’s voice or command could have such power. A miracle can be explained as a break of a natural law by God’s will or by some invisible force. A miracle might be something people can see or not. This doesn’t change what a miracle is. For example, lifting a house or ship into the air is an obvious miracle. But even lifting a feather when the wind is just a little too weak to do it is also a real miracle, even if we don’t notice it as much.
