HUME’S ENDNOTES [For the editorial principles applied here, please see the Note on the Text, above.] Endnote [A] to 2.9, p. 151 Itis probable that no more was meant by those, who denied innate ideas, 22 than that all ideas were copies of our impressions; though it must be confessed, that the terms, which they employed, were not chosen with such caution, nor so exactly defined, as to prevent all mistakes about their doctrine. For what is meant by innate?If innate be equivalent to natural, then all the perceptions and ideas of the mind must be allowed to be innate or natural, in whatever sense we take the latter word, whether in opposition to what is uncommon, artificial, or miraculous. If by innate be meant, cotemporary to our birth, the dispute seems to be frivolous; nor is it worth while to enquire at what time thinking begins, whether before, at, or after our birth. Again, the word idea, seems to be commonly taken in a very loose sense, by Locke*and others; as standing for any of our perceptions,our sensations and passions, as well as thoughts. Now in this sense, I should desire to know, what can be meant by asserting, that self-love, or resentment of injuries, or the passion between the sexes is not innate?
 
 But admitting these terms, impressions and ideas, in the sense above explained, and understanding by innate, what is original or copied from no precedent perception, then may we assert, that all our impressions are innate, and our ideas not innate.
 
 To be ingenuous, I must own it to be my opinion, that Lockewas betrayed into this question by the schoolmen,* who, making use of undefined terms, draw out their disputes to a tedious length, without ever touching the point in question. A like ambiguity and circumlocution seem to run through that philosopher’s reasonings on this as well as most other subjects.
 
 Endnote [B] to 5.5, p. 328 Nothing is more usual than for writers, even, on moral, political, or 43 physicalsubjects, to distinguish between reasonandexperience, and to suppose, that these species of argumentation are entirely different from 44 each other. The former are taken for the mere result of our intellectual faculties, which, by considering àpriorithe nature of things, and examining the effects, that must follow from their operation, establish particular principles of science and philosophy. The latter are supposed to be derived entirely from sense and observation, by which we learn what has actually resulted from the operation of particular objects, and are thence able to 122 Hume’s Endnotes infer, what will, for the future, result from them.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
