(E8.22endnote [F]) Some recent interpreters have cast doubt on the extent to which passages such as these reflect a genuine subjectivism on Hume’s part.25 But in terms of its influence on epistemology, metaphysics, and the philosophy of science, this ‘anti-realism’ about causation, along with his inductive scepticism, constitutes his most prominent legacy.
 
 Havingfinally tracked down the impression of necessary connexion, Hume sets about clarifying the notion of ‘cause’, of which necessary connexion is the central component. He gives two ‘definitions of cause’, also adding a gloss on the first of them: [1] an object, followed by another,26and where all the objects, similar to the first, are followed by objects similar to the second.
 
 Or in other words [1′]where, if the first object had not been, the second never had existed.27 [2] an object followed by another, and whose appearance always conveys the thought to that other. (E7.29) Since Hume has already argued that the idea of necessity cannot literally be defined in the sense of a conceptual analysis or dictionary definition (i.e. through ‘enumeration of those parts . . . that compose’ the idea, E 7.4), his two definitions must be understood as doing something rather different. They seem to be intended to capture the circumstances under which we come to ascribe causal connexion, with the first definition focusing on the kind of observation that leads someone to believe in such a connexion (namely, the observation of what appears to that person to be a constant conjunction), while the second definition focuses instead on what the student of human 25 The main contributions to this ongoing debate are most easily accessible in Rupert Read and Kenneth A. Richman (eds.), The New Hume Debate(Routledge,2nd edn., 2007), to which I have also contributed an essay.
 
 26 In the Treatise(T1.3.14.31), Hume had insisted that a cause must be contiguous with its effect as well as temporally prior, but he dropped this condition from the Enquiry (cf. p. 207), presumably to allow for the possibility of gravitational action at a distance, or perhaps causation between mental events that have no spatial location.
 
 27 This gloss cannot possibly be equivalent to (1) even if it is interpreted as a straightforward past tense conditional, meaning ‘where, if the first object was not, the second was not either’. Definition (1) states that the first object has never appeared without the second, which implies that if the secondobject was not, the firstwas not either. So Hume’s gloss is puzzling, seeming to get things the wrong way round.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
