The summaries below are intended to facilitate this, while also providing an aide-memoire and an organized catalogue of Hume’s references to other philosophers within the text of the Enquiry.] Aristotle and the Medieval ‘Schools’ Aristotle (384‒322 bc) is widely considered the greatest philosopher of antiquity, making seminal contributions in the philosophy of logic and language, metaphysics, aesthetics, ethics, and politics, as well as developing influential theories of physics, psychology, and biology. A pupil of Plato in the Academy(see below), he went on to be tutor to Alexander the Great of Macedonia, and in 355bcfounded his own school near Athens, at the Lyceum. For discussion of his theory of the world, and its long influence, see §1of the Introduction, above. By medieval times the pagan schools of philosophy had been suppressed, and Aristotelianism, incorporated into a Christian framework, was so dominant that it was often referred to as simply the philosophy of ‘the schools’, with Aristotle himself known as ‘the Philosopher’. Nevertheless the Philosopher’s own works were not always taken as uniquely authoritative, and some of the most influential elements of the medieval synthesis were later developments of Aristotelianism, such as Ptolemy’s system of the heavens and Galen’s medicine.
 
 Aristotle is mentioned twice in the main text of the Enquiry, an example of an ‘abstract reasoner’ whose ‘fame is utterly decayed’ (1.4) and whose theory of the elements is antiquated (8.7). Aristotle’s theory of literary criticism also gets a mention in the long deleted passage from Section III (3.10variant). The medieval ‘schools’ are mentioned twice in Section VIII (8.22endnote [F], 8.27), and ‘schoolmen’ at 2.9endnote [A]. Most famously, at the end of the Enquiry, Aristotelian ‘school metaphysics’ typifiesthe sort of philosophy that is to be committed to the flames (12.34).
 
 Pyrrhonian and Academic Scepticism Pyrrho of Elis (c.365‒270 bc) was the best-known sceptic of antiquity, who supposedly had to be accompanied by friends for his own safety, since Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers 221 he saw no reason for believing that carts, precipices, or wild animals would do him harm.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
