liv Introduction For Locke’s understanding of perception depends on a distinction betweenprimaryandsecondaryqualities, where the former (e.g. length, movement, solidity) are supposed to be in the objects themselves in a way that resembles our ideas of them, while the latter (e.g. felt hardness, temperature, colour) are not. But Hume agrees with Berkeley that our ideas of primary qualities are entirely dependent on those of secondary qualities; for example we acquire an idea of an extended area by seeing it differently coloured from its surroundings. Hence if we try to imagine an external object as independent of our perceptions, distinct from all mind-dependent qualities, then we are forced to ‘bereave matter of all its intelligible qualities, both primary and secondary’, and we are left only with ‘a certain unknown, inexplicablesomething, as the cause of our perceptions; a notion so imperfect, that no sceptic will think it worth while to contend against it’ (E12.16).
 
 One important upshot of this discussion is that any attempt to penetrate the essence of physical objects—so popular amongst theological metaphysicians intent on proving matter’s inertness (cf. §6, above)— is doomed to failure.
 
 Part ii of Section XII turns to scepticism about our reasoning faculties, starting with some of the notorious paradoxes of infinite divisibility. Hume describes and seems to endorse them, though in a note (E 12.20 endnote [P]) he suggests that it may be possible ‘to avoid these absurdities and contradictions’, by appeal to a non-abstractionist theory of general ideas (as developed more fully in Treatise1.1.7). He then moves on to scepticism about factual reasoning, first dismissing— on practical grounds—an ‘excessive’ popularvariant which takes our inconsistent judgements to undermine all inductive reasoning: The great subverter of Pyrrhonismor the excessive principles of scepticism, is action, and employment, and the occupations of common life. These principles may flourish and triumph in the schools; where it is, indeed difficult, if not impossible, to refute them. But as soon as they leave the shade, and by the presence of the real objects, which actuate our passions, and sentiments, are put in opposition to the more powerful principles of our nature, they vanish like smoke (E12.21) More substantial is a philosophicalvariant of scepticism about induction, Hume’s own argument from Section IV in summary form (E12.22).
 
 This too can be criticized as excessive if it goes to the Pyrrhonian extreme of attempting to undermine all belief, but fortunately for our survival, human nature is too strong to make such avoidance of belief Introduction lv a genuine possibility.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
