198 Notes to Pages 78–83 9.6 the experimental . . . beasts: our reasoning from experience is fundamentally based on a non-rational instinct, just like that of the animals. See p. xl of the Introduction.
 
 SECTION X 10.1 Dr. TILLOTSON’S writings . . . real presence: the real presencerefers to the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation, which claims that bread and wine, when blessed in the ceremony of the Christian Eucharist, are substantially changed into the body and blood of Christ (see the Introduction, p. xx). John Tillotson(1630‒94) was a Protestant preacher, well known for his attacks on Roman Catholicism, who ultimately became archbishop of Canterbury. He argued against transubstantiation on the basis that our only evidence of its truth is from the reported sense experience of the Disciples, but this must be balanced against the clear evidence of the senses that transubstantiation is false. Hume’s argument against miracles is structurally parallel, in first reducing the evidence of testimony to experience, and then arguing that this experiential evidence in favour of testimony can never outweigh the strength of the experience against a miracle.
 
 10.3 moral evidence: evidence that is less than certain, typically derivingfrom experience of cause and effect—see explanatory note to 4.18.
 
 10.4 A wise . . . evidence: Hume is applying his account of probability normatively, as prescribing how we ought to reason. See §16 of the Introduction for a discussion of the following extended argument.
 
 10.4 experiments: observations from experience, not implying any special scientific context.
 
 10.6 proof: an extremely strong ‘moral’ (i.e. factual) argument, typically based on totally uniform experience (e.g. the inference that fire is hot, or snow cold). Hume introduced this notion in the footnote to the title of Section VI. In this sense the notion of proofcarries no implication of being formal or mathematical, and is quite distinct from the notion of a demonstrativeargument (cf. 4.18and §12of the Introduction, above).
 
 10.9 CATO: Cato the Younger (95‒46bc), a Roman politician and Stoic (see Glossarial Index), renowned for his truthfulness according to Plutarch.
 
 10.10 The INDIAN prince: Hume appears to borrow the story of the Indian prince from §3of the introduction to Joseph Butler’s Analogy of Religion (1736), which mentions a ‘prince who had always lived in a warm climate’. Butler attributes the story to Locke’s Essay, IV. xv. 5, though in fact Locke’s example is of the King of Siam.
 
 10.12 violation of . . . nature: Hume assumes that the theist will understand a miracle as being an event that is contrary to nature’s normal ways of working, brought about by the intervention of some invisible spirit (see 10.12endnote [K]).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
