Our author starts by explaining some basic ideas. He says a perception is anything that can be in our mind. This can happen when we use our senses, feel emotions, or think carefully. He divides perceptions into two types: impressions and ideas. Impressions happen when we feel emotions or see things with our senses. He uses the word “impression” in a new way to mean strong, clear perceptions. Ideas happen when we think about a feeling or thing that is not right in front of us. Impressions are strong and lively, while ideas are weaker and fainter. This difference is easy to see, like the difference between feeling and thinking.

The first big point he makes is that all our ideas, or weaker perceptions, come from our impressions, the strong ones. We can’t think about anything unless we have already seen it with our senses or felt it inside our mind. This idea is similar to what Mr. Locke worked hard to prove—that we are not born with ideas already in our heads.

But there is a small mistake in Mr. Locke’s thinking. He calls all our perceptions ideas, but this is wrong. We do have strong perceptions, or impressions, that are natural and come from inside us. Feelings like love, hate, and other emotions come from nature itself. If people looked at this more carefully, they could agree more easily. Father Malebranche would have trouble finding a thought that didn’t come from something felt before, either inside us or through our senses. He would agree that all our ideas come from these sources, even if we mix or change them. Mr. Locke would agree that our feelings are natural instincts that come from how our minds are made.

The author believes that the best discovery for understanding ideas is that impressions always come first. Every idea we imagine starts from a real impression we had before. Impressions are so clear that no one argues about them, but many ideas are so unclear that even the person thinking can’t fully explain them. So, whenever an idea is confusing, he looks back to the impression it came from to make it clear. If he thinks a word doesn’t really have an idea behind it (which happens a lot), he asks where the impression for that idea is. If there is no impression, he says the word doesn’t really mean anything.
