This is how he looks closely at our idea of what things really are; and it would be great if more people used this careful way of thinking in all philosophy talks.

It’s clear that all our thinking about facts is based on cause and effect. We can’t guess something exists just because of something else, unless they are connected somehow. So, to understand these ideas, we have to know what a cause is. To do that, we need to look around and find something that causes something else.

Here’s a billiard ball sitting still on a table, and another ball rolling fast toward it. They hit each other, and the ball that was still starts moving. This is a perfect example of cause and effect, the kind we know from what we see or think about.

Let’s look at it closely. The two balls touched right before the second one started moving, and there was no delay between the hit and the movement. So, being next to each other in time and place is necessary for a cause to work. Also, the first ball’s movement happens before the second ball’s movement, so the cause has to come first in time. But there’s more. If we try this with other balls in the same way, the moving ball always makes the other one move. This means the cause and effect always happen together. Every ball like the cause always makes a ball like the effect. Besides these three things—touching, happening first, and always happening together—I can’t find anything else in the cause. The first ball moves, touches the second, and the second moves right away. No matter how I look at it, that’s all there is.

This is when we can see both cause and effect happening. Now, what about when we guess that one thing caused another even if we only see one? Suppose I see a ball moving straight toward another ball. I immediately think they will hit and the second ball will move. This is how we guess from cause to effect, and this kind of thinking guides everything in life. It’s why we believe history and how most science works, except for math and geometry.

If we can explain how we guess what happens when two balls hit, we can explain how our minds work in every case.

If a person like Adam was created smart but had never seen anything before, he wouldn’t be able to guess that the second ball would move just because the first one moved and hit it.
