lii Introduction 17. Section XI: ‘Of a Particular Providence, and of a Future State’ Most of the argument of Section XI is put in the mouth of ‘a friend who loves sceptical paradoxes’, and placed in a classical context, to enable Hume to distance himself from his controversial critique of the Design Argument for a Christian God, which when he wrote was the most respected weapon in the theist’s arsenal (cf. §5, above).
 
 Hume’s main point against that argument is that it can never prove the existence of a being with more impressive qualities (e.g. power, wisdom, or goodness) than are actually manifested in the world. So we can never argue first from the world to God, and then back from the nature of that inferred God to draw new conclusions about the world—for example that there is an afterlife in which the good will be rewarded and the evil punished.
 
 Just as in Section X, therefore, Hume is working out the implications of basing our knowledge of the world on induction. ‘Experimental theists’ claim to provide a solid rational foundation for their belief in God, based not on speculative metaphysics, nor on special divine revelation, but on the relatively down-to-earth methods of inductive science, reasonably ‘drawing inferences from effects to causes’.31 Hume counters that they have aided the ascent of reason by the wings of imagination; otherwise they could not thus change their manner of inference, and argue from causes to effects; presuming, that a more perfect production than the present world would be more suitable to such perfect beings as the gods, and forgetting that they have no reason to ascribe to these celestial beings any perfection or any attribute, but what can be found in the present world. (E11.16) Again Hume attacks a theistic argument, and in doing so uses—and highlights—principles that are of far broader application. As well as this principle of proportionality, that we should proportion hypothesized causes to their observed effects, Section XI also re-emphasizes the principle of analogy from Section IX, that an inductive argument’s strength varies with the degree of similarity between the objects involved, so that any inference from human purposes to those 31 In the excerpt from Hume’s Dialogues(see Appendix III), Cleanthes expresses this preference very clearly. It is instructive to read Section XI of the Enquiryalongside both theDialoguesand the essay ‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’ (see Appendix II).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
