xxviii Introduction he emphasizes the inconceivability of anything sensory existing outside a mind, and denies that anything unperceived (such as the supposed primary qualities of an external object) could even resemble a sensory idea. He then goes on to attack the basis of the primarysecondaryquality distinction itself, arguing that since our ideas of primary qualitiesare inextricably linked with those of secondary qualities (e.g. we see or imagine an object’s shape only by seeing or imagining the extent of its colour), it is impossible to conceive the one without the other.15Even if some objects resembling our ideas were to exist outside the mind, since those ideas are ‘visibly inactive, [with] nothing of power or agency included in them’ (Principles, i. 25), any such objects would themselves have to be totally inert, and hence quite unable to cause any perception of them. Thus Berkeley reaches the conclusion that the only active things in the universe are minds, or spirits, while everything that we perceive consists of inactive, inert, ideas.
 
 It seems odd that a line of thought inspired by physical science, namely the mechanical philosophy’s emphasis on the inertness of matter, should lead to metaphysical positions such as occasionalism and immaterialism that deny physical objects any causal role whatever in the world that we perceive. But Berkeley in particular took pains to develop an account of physical science consistent with his immaterialism, and he did this by taking further the instrumentalism hinted at by Newton. On this account, the aim of science is simply to discover laws that generate true predictions about the perceived phenomena, and it is irrelevant whether the unperceived entities (such as forces) to which those laws appeal actually have any real existence, as long as they provide useful instruments of prediction. If immaterialism is correct, then such forces—and even the material objects that Locke and others suppose to be the causes of our perceptions—do not in fact exist, and the apparent intricacy of the physical world is duenot to the interaction of complex material mechanisms, but instead to God’s direct action. God benevolently ensures that our perceptions occur in the same patterns as they would if they were caused by such 15 Berkeley links this with an intense attack on Locke’s doctrine of ‘abstraction’, the process by which we supposedly come to form general ideas. In fact it seems that he misunderstood Locke, whose notion of abstraction (involving ‘partial consideration’ of some aspects of an idea) is rather similar to Berkeley’s. Hume’s own account of general ideas, developed from Berkeley’s, is sketched at E12.20endnote [P].
 

 
(Simplified)
 
