Doubts about What We Know

Some people say that because we’ve seen the same results happen over and over in experiments, we can connect what we see with what’s really going on inside things. But I think this is just the same problem, explained in a different way. The big question is: how do we actually make this connection? What ideas help us link things that seem so different?

We admit that the color, texture, and other things we notice about bread don’t directly show us how it gives us energy and keeps us alive. If they did, we could figure this out just by looking at bread, without needing experience or testing. But that’s not what any smart person or facts tell us.

So, we don’t really know how things work just by looking. Experience helps a little—it shows us that certain objects cause certain results, and teaches us that these objects have some powers or forces at that time. When we see a new thing that looks like bread in color and texture, we expect it to have the same powers and effects.

But this is a step in thinking that still needs explaining. When someone says, “I have always seen these qualities together with these powers,” and then says, “These qualities will always be linked with these powers,” they’re not just repeating themselves or saying the same thing twice.

You might say the second statement comes from the first. But this connection isn’t obvious or proven. What kind of connection is it then? Saying it’s from experience just assumes the answer.

All conclusions from experience are based on the idea that the future will be like the past, and that similar things will cause similar effects. If we think nature might change, and the past doesn’t predict the future, then experience is useless and can’t help us decide anything.

So, no argument from experience can prove that the future will be like the past because all those arguments already assume it will be. Even if things have always happened regularly before, that alone doesn’t prove they will keep happening that way.

It’s pointless to say you’ve learned how things really are just from past experience.
