In 1609–10 Galileo Galilei made his own telescope (a device invented only in 1608) and viewed the heavens in unprecedented detail, immediately publishing what he saw in The Starry Messenger.3Amongst his discoveries were craters, mountains, and valleys on the moon, whose dimensions could even be gauged from the observed shadows, and whose existence suggested a world much like our own, of rugged rocky irregularity rather than smooth etherial perfection. Likewise the four Galilean moons orbiting around Jupiter undermined the idea that all celestial motion must centre on the Earth, while the sequence of the phases of Venus in shapes from crescent to almost circular—invisible to the naked eye but very obvious through a telescope—gave decisive evidence against the Aristotelian-Ptolemaic model of the planetary orbits. Less decisive, but imaginatively suggestive of the need for a new world-view, Galileo saw innumerable new stars of varying brightness, seeming to stretch out well beyond the crystalline sphere that was supposed to hold the known visible stars.
 
 2. From Aristotelian to Cartesian Intelligibility If the Earth is not at the centre of the universe, then not only Aristotle’s cosmology, but also his account of terrestrial motion must be seriously in error. Moreover when tested critically, specific predictions derived from his theories were found to be quite wrong, even applied to such everyday things as the flight of a cannon ball, a sledge sliding over an icy pond, the dripping of water from a gutter, or the fall of stones of different sizes. Galileo is reputed to have demonstrated this publicly, by dropping a heavy and a light ball simultaneously from the Tower of Pisa, both falling with similar speed.4He went on to develop 3 Galileo’s weren’t the only relevant observations. In 1572Tycho Brahe had observed a supernova, and in 1604Johannes Kepler observed another (also seen by Galileo). Meanwhile in1577, a major comet appeared, which Brahe—by triangulation against observations of astronomers elsewhere in Europe—proved to be more distant than the Moon. All these indicated that the heavens beyond the Moon were far from the eternally incorruptible domain envisaged by Aristotle (who had dismissed comets and meteors as atmospheric phenomena, hence the word ‘meteorology’). See p. 160below for Hume’s comment on the significance of this undermining of the distinction between the heavenly and earthly domains.
 
 4 Aristotle claimed that heavy objects fall faster than light ones in proportion to their weight, whereas in fact they usually fall faster only very marginally, the difference being xiv Introduction an alternative theory of motion, based on the concepts of inertiaand forces.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
