xlvi Introduction nature will observe in the believer once the causal belief has taken hold, and which gives that belief its characteristic content (namely, the operation of a certain type of associative mechanism). Hume acknowledges that his definitions fall short of what might be wished for: neither of them identifies anything about the specific cause in itself that connects it with its effect, for it is only in virtue of the pattern of events— the conjunction in other instances, or the consequent tendency to draw inferences—that the causal link can be ascribed. We are naturally inclined to want more, to try to grasp ‘that circumstance in the cause, which gives it a connexion with its effect’. But on Hume’s subjectivist principles, even this wish is incoherent: ‘We have no idea of this connexion; nor even any distinct notion what it is we desire to know, when we endeavour at a conception of it’ (E 7.29). So Hume’s two definitions capture everything that we can coherently mean in ascribing causal connexions. Though we hanker after a deeper and more substantial conception of causation, some notion of the supposed causal glue that binds events together, we cannot achieve this, nor even any coherent understanding of what it is that we thus seek! This does not, however, undermine the notion of ‘cause’; rather, it shows that the notion is to be ascribed purely on the basis of Hume’s two definitions (cf. T1.4.5.32).
 
 14. Section VIII: ‘Of Liberty and Necessity’ In Section VIII Hume pursues ‘a reconciling project’ (E8.23), presenting a compatibilistsolution to the ancient problem of free will and determinism. As briefly discussed in §4, above, he follows Hobbes in claiming that the doctrine of necessity—i.e. universal determinism— is compatible with the doctrine of liberty—i.e. the claim that some of our actions are free and therefore morally accountable. Hobbes had based his compatibilism on a definition of ‘freedom’ as being able to do what one wills without hindrance, and Hume’s definition of ‘liberty’ is in the same spirit: By liberty, then, we can only mean a power of acting or not acting, according to the determinations of the will; that is, if we chuse to remain at rest, we may; if we chuse to move, we also may. (E8.23) Liberty so defined is obviously compatible with determinism: if our actions follow our will, then we do have such liberty, even if our will Introduction xlvii itself is entirely causally determined.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
