Introduction xxxv out to have no corresponding impression (E 2.9). However, in the rest of the Enquiryhe uses it less aggressively, not to reject ideas but as a tool of analysis, a ‘new microscope or species of optics’ (E7.4) which can make our ideas more clear and precise by discovering the impressions from which they are derived and of which they are copies.20As we shall see later, his main application of this ‘microscope’ comes in Section VII, where he uses it to clarify the idea of necessary connexion, but there are also brief hints of its playing a role in Section XII, as applied to the ideas of extension (E12.15), space, and time (E12.20 endnote [P]).
 
 The Association of Ideas The present Section III is merely the first three paragraphs of what was originally a much longer essay, which Hume cut down after the 1772 edition by the removal of an extended discussion of the role of the association of ideas in literature (see pp. 178–83). It is very straightforward,first pointing out that our ideas tend to follow each other, and to combine with each other, in regular patterns. He then suggests that all of this associative behaviour reduces to the operation of three relations or ‘principles of connexion among ideas, namely, Resemblance, Contiguityin time or place, and CauseorEffect’. The section ends rather tamely, with Hume stating that although he can find no other principlesof association besides these three, nevertheless he cannot prove that his enumeration is complete. This doesn’t seem to be of great concern to him, presumably because nothing of great consequence hangs on it in what follows. Indeed the only significant role of the association of ideas in the Enquiry is to provide an analogy with the operation of custom. In Part ii of Section V (E5.20), Hume will suggest that custom, an instinctive mechanism that underlies all of our factual reasoning, operates in a somewhat similar way to the association of ideas.
 
 10. Section IV: Hume’s Fork In Section IV the serious business of the Enquiry begins, and Hume presents his most celebrated argument, the sceptical argument 20 In the TreatiseHume had used the Copy Principle to dismiss a fair number of supposedly bogus ideas, for example material substance (T1.1.6.1), existence (T1.2.6.2–5), solidity (T 1.4.4.12–14), mental substance (T 1.4.5.3–4), and the self ‘as something simple and individual’ (Appendix,11).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
