APPENDIX III Excerpts from Parts I and II of the Dialogues concerning Natural Religion (1779) [HUME’SDialogueswere published posthumously in 1779, having been revised shortly before his death in 1776, though most of the content—especially of the early sections—was probably completed by 1752, only four years after the publication of the firstEnquiry. Parts I and II of the Dialoguescontain a good deal of general material on the understanding of scepticism, with Philo, the character described by Hume as a ‘careless sceptic’, presenting a point of view strikingly similar to that expressed in EnquirySection XII. In Part I, Philo provides important explanation of the motivation for this scepticism, which in some respects goes beyond anything in the Enquiry. Then Cleanthes, the ‘experimental theist’ and proponent of the Design Argument for God’s existence, makes interesting criticisms, some of which are not clearly answered by Philo (nor indeed by Hume in other works). This raises the interesting possibility that Hume himself might have been grappling with potentially strong objections to aspects of his scepticism, notably concerning the basis of his recommendation, expressed at E12.25, to restrict our enquiries to ‘common life’. In Part II, Cleanthes presents his Design Argument, the logic of which Philo elucidates for the benefit of Demea (an orthodox believer), before delivering criticisms closely related to those in EnquirySection XI.
 
 The text that follows is taken from the first edition of 1779, with marginal page numbers to facilitate reference to the standard edition by Norman Kemp Smith (Macmillan, 1947).] PART I . . .
 
 131 . . .The vulgar, [remarked Philo], who are unacquainted with science and profound enquiry, observing the endless disputes of the learned, have commonly a thorough contempt for Philosophy; and rivet themselves the faster, by that means, in the great points of Theology, which have been taught them. Those, who enter a little into study and enquiry, finding many appearances of evidence in doctrines the newest and most extraordinary, think nothing too difficult for human reason; and presumptuously breaking through all fences, profane the inmost sanctuaries of the temple.
 
 But . . . after we have abandoned ignorance, the surest remedy, there is still one expedient left to prevent this profane liberty. Let . . .us become Dialogues concerning Natural Religion 153 thoroughly sensible of the weakness, blindness, and narrow limits of human reason: Let us duly consider its uncertainty and endless contrarieties, even in subjects of common life and practice: Let the errors and deceits of our very senses be set before us; the insuperable difficulties, which attend first principles in all systems; the contradictions, which adhere to the very ideas of matter, cause and effect, extension, space, time, motion; and in a word, quantity of all kinds, the object of the only science, that can fairly pretend to any certainty or evidence.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
