Introduction xxv limited creatures, so our pure rational insight may not extend very far, but the apparent success of philosophers in discovering ‘intelligible’ laws of nature indicated that it was at least partially applicable beyond mathematics, to the operations of the physical world. Locke, typically, was more modest, acknowledging that even our scientific understanding of the world is at best ‘probable’ and thus inevitably falls short of the ‘demonstrative’ certainty of mathematics. But even this mere probable judgement is quite sufficient for our practical needs, and our faculty of reason is just as valuable when we use it to perceive probabilities as when we perceive certainties. God has given us faculties suitable for our position in the world, as creatures intermediate between animals and angels. And though our reason might be fallible and limited, it above all is what elevates us above the beasts.
 
 In this, at least, most early modern philosophers could agree with Plato, who saw reason as the central function of the immortal soul, and even Aristotle, who defined man as the one distinctive ‘rational animal’.
 
 6. Inertness, Malebranche, and Berkeley The Design Argument was not the only way in which the new science could be harnessed to the benefit of religion. Indeed we saw earlier how the ‘unintelligible’ nature of gravitational attraction—the fact that it seemed inexplicable in mechanistic terms—could be presented as an argument for God’s existence. The ‘mechanical philosophy’ not only encouraged the perception of the world as a clockwork masterpiece (thereby implying the existence of a master clockmaker); it also implied limits on the essence and powers of matter, which could be exploited for theological gain. Descartes was the first to do this, when he claimed to perceive clearly and distinctly that the essence of matter was different from that of the thinking self, so that the soul must be immaterial and hence could potentially survive the body’s dissolution. Locke followed, giving an argument for the existence of God which depended on the impossibility of intelligent thought’s arising from the mere primary qualities of matter. However, Locke ventured the opinion that God might, if He wished, ‘superadd’ thought to matter (Essay, IV. iii. 6). This provoked a great deal of hostility, since thought was evidently an ‘active’ power, whereas the mechanical philosophy (inspired by the concept of inertia) encouraged the xxvi Introduction idea that matter was purely passive or ‘inert’.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
