xxxviii Introduction argument concerning induction, probably the most famous argument in English language philosophy.
 
 The Sceptical Argument Concerning Induction Suppose I see one loose billiard ball collide with another. I will naturally expect the second ball to move, but how can I know—or even have any ground for reasonable belief—that it will do so? Hume starts by pointing out that any such belief about the unobserved appears to be based on causation: I predict that the second ball will move on the basis of a belief that the collision will causeit to do so.
 
 Where, then, do such causal beliefs come from? Apparently only from experience, because they cannot be known a priori, a point on which Hume expands at length (E 4.6–11). But to learn anything from experience, we must clearly be able to extrapolate beyond it: to draw factual or inductive inferences from what we haveobserved, to what we have not(as when we infer that hitherto unobserved billiard balls will behave in the same sorts of ways as those we have experienced, and that the operative causal laws will remain consistent). It follows that all our beliefs about unobserved matters of fact are based on a general principle or supposition of uniformity, that the future will resemble, or be conformable to, the past(E4.19,4.21), and they can be warranted only if this is rationally well founded. The challenge is to identify any such rational foundation: if you insist, that the inference [from observed to unobserved] is made by a chain of reasoning, I desire you to produce that reasoning. (E4.16) Hume therefore turns to examine all the potential sources of rational justification for this principle of uniformity. A passage from A Letter from a Gentleman to his Friend in Edinburgh(1745), written at about the same time as the Enquiry, helps to explain his procedure in what follows: It is common for Philosophers to distinguish the Kinds of Evidence into intuitive,demonstrative,sensible[i.e. sensory], and moral[i.e. inductive]; (L22) Hume accordingly points out that his uniformity principle cannot be based on rational ‘intuition’, nor on ‘demonstrative argument’ from our experience, because we can easily conceive of the future’s turning out differently (E4.18). Nor can it be founded on anything that we learn by sensory experience, since this tells us nothing about objects’ Introduction xxxix underlying powers—we learn what powers things have only through practical experience of their effects, not by any perception of their nature (E 4.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
