Notes to Pages 83–88 199 10.13 deducting the inferior: Hume’s most explicit account of how such ‘deduction’ would operate is at Treatise1.3.11.9‒12. Applied to a simple case of probabilistic assessment based on equally likely alternatives or on past frequencies, this seems to imply that he takes the force of such evidence to be measurable as the balance of positive over negative instances, divided by the total number of instances. Such a measure is coherent, but would yield a probabilistic scale from 1to−1instead of the now conventional 1to0.
 
 10.17 an enthusiast: ‘enthusiasm’ refers to charismatic religious faith, often combined with a firm conviction that God has personally revealed Himself to the believer. See §5of the Introduction, above.
 
 10.18 aTULLY or aDEMOSTHENES: ‘Tully’ is another name for Cicero (i.e.
 
 Marcus Tullius Cicero, see p. 221). Demosthenes (384‒322 bc) was a celebrated Athenian orator, whose recorded speeches, together with Cicero’s, are discussed in Hume’s essay ‘Of Eloquence’ (1742).
 
 10.18 Capuchin: friar of the order of St Francis, famed as very effective preachers.
 
 10.21 wonderful historians: historians who report numerous wonders or miracles.
 
 10.22 ALEXANDER . . . PAPHLAGONIA . . . LUCIAN: Around ad 160, Alexander of Abonouteichos in Paphlagonia (a region of northern Asia Minor) devised a trick to make it appear as though Asclepius, the god of healing in the form of a snake with a human head, was being born from a goose egg. Lucian of Samosata(c.ad120‒80+), a Greek rhetorician and satirist known best for his amusing dialogues, wrote an exposé entitledAlexander, or the False Prophet.
 
 10.22 MARCUS AURELIUS: Marcus Aurelius Antoninus (ad 121‒80) became Roman emperor in succession to his adoptive father, Antoninus Pius, who had adopted him as heir on the insistence of the previous emperor Hadrian. Famed for his wisdom and virtue, his Meditationsis one of the classics of Stoic philosophy (see Glossarial Index).
 
 10.23 his impostures: the editions of the Enquiryuntil1768included a note, as follows: ‘It may here, perhaps, be objected, that I proceed rashly, and form my Notions of Alexandermerely from the Account, given of him byLucian, a profess’d Enemy. It were indeed to be wish’d, that some of the Accounts publish’d by his Followers and Accomplices had remain’d. The Opposition and Contrast between the Character and Conduct of the same Man, as drawn by a Friend or an Enemy is as strong, even in common Life, much more in these religious Matters, as that betwixt any two Men in the World, betwixt Alexanderand St. Paul, for Instance. See a Letter to Gilbert WestEsq; on the Conversion and Apostleship of St. Paul.’ 10.24 MAHOMET: founder and principal Prophet of the Islamic religion, also known as Muhammad or Mohammed (c.ad570‒632).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
