190 Notes to Pages 20–24 4.8 one Billiard-ball . . . upon impulse:Hume borrows Malebranche’s example of two colliding balls (Search after Truth, VI. ii. 3.10) to make the point that even the most familiar and apparently ‘intelligible’ causal interactions can only be known through experience. See §2 of the Introduction, above.
 
 4.10 may I not conceive: it might seem that Hume is appealing to his Conceivability Principle (4.2) here, to establish only that other effects are logically possible. However, he is claiming much more: that a priori many different effects are equally possible, with no basis for choosing between them, so that the choice between them would be ‘entirely arbitrary’ (4.9).
 
 4.12 reduce the principles. . . observation: Hume spells out what he sees as the only legitimate ambition of science, given that a priori intelligibility is not to be had. See §7of the Introduction, above. It is in this unifying spirit that he will later sketch some hypotheses of his own in the science of mind, arguing that custom is analogous to the associationof ideas (5.20) and that it can account for probabilistic inference (6.3). Later in the paragraph, the phrase ‘springs and principles’ recalls 1.15: see explanatory notes to 1.13and1.15.
 
 4.13 mixed mathematics: what we would now call ‘applied mathematics’,the application of mathematics to the physical world.
 
 4.13 the moment or force . . . motion: Hume here alludes to what is nowknown asmomentum, the mass of a body multiplied by its velocity(i.e. its speed in a particular direction). One of the most fundamental laws of mechanics is the conservation of momentum, whereby the total momentum of a number of colliding bodies will be the same after the collision as it was before. It follows, as Hume remarks, that a small body, if acceleratedto a great enough speed, can achieve sufficient momentum to displace a much larger body which is moving relatively slowly.
 
 4.13 the discovery . . . experience: though demonstrative mathematical reasoning is useful in physics, this does not mean that the behaviour of objects can be known a priori through mathematics, because the physical laws through which the mathematics is applied (e.g. the conservation of momentum) can be discovered only by experience.
 
 4.14 sifting humour: probing frame of mind.
 
 4.15 pretend: claim, or aspire, with no connotation of pretencein the modern sense.
 
 4.16 force or power . . . others: the inertia of bodies was supposed to involve a force, the vis inertiaeor inert power; see explanatory note to endnote [D].
 
 4.16 n. 7 See Sect. 7: this note was added in the 1750 edition, and seems designed to obviate an objection made by Kames, that Hume was inconsistent in referring to objects’ powers in the previous threesentences, when Section VII will go on to deny that objects in themselvesstrictly have any powers. Hume here indicates that his language of ‘powers’ should not be taken to prejudge how that language is to be interpreted.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
