194 Notes to Pages 44–56 SECTION VII 7.0 Of the IDEA. . . CONNEXION: in the first two editions of the Enquiry (1748and1750), the title of Section VII was ‘Of theIdeaof Poweror necessaryConnexion’. Throughout the section, Hume treats ‘power’ and ‘connexion’ as virtual synonyms, as he had done also in the corresponding section of the Treatise, where he explains that ‘the terms of efficacy,agency,power,force,energy,necessity,connexion, and productive quality, are all nearly synonimous’ (T1.3.14.4).
 
 7.2 EUCLID: see explanatory note to 4.1.
 
 7.2 chimera and conceit: both terms refer to something imagined and fanciful (in Greek mythology, a chimera is a monster with a lion’s head, a goat’s body, and a snake’s tail).
 
 7.4 all our ideas. . . impressions: Hume refers back to his Copy Principle of Section II: see explanatory notes to 2.5and2.9.
 
 7.5 let us search . . . derived: for a description of Hume’s extended argument in this section, see §13of the Introduction, above.
 
 7.6 outward . . . inward impression: Hume follows Locke (see p. xvii of the Introduction) in distinguishing between sensation (i.e. outward senses such as sight and touch) and reflection(i.e. inward sense—awareness of our own feelings).
 
 7.8 n. 12 Mr. LOCKE: see Glossarial Index; the reference is to Locke’s Essay, II. xxi.
 
 7.8 n. 12 simple idea: Hume makes the assumption that the idea whose impression he seeks is simple (as apparent also at 7.4). This may be because he is focusing not on any very specific idea, but on the general notion of one thing following from another—the basic idea of connexion (see Introduction, p. xlii n. 24).
 
 7.13 palsy: paralysis.
 
 7.14 animal spirits: a supposed fluid providing the medium of communication within the nervous system.
 
 7.21 n. 14 : Greek phrase equivalent to the more familiar Latindeus ex machina, meaning ‘god out of a machine’. It refers to the practice used by some classical playwrights, of resolving a plot (often rather implausibly) through the intervention of a god, lowered onto the stage by a mechanism.
 
 7.21 many philosophers: Hume refers to Malebranche and other occasionalists.
 
 See Glossarial Index and §6 of the Introduction.
 
 7.28 this . . . necessary connexion: for a discussion of this important but somewhat puzzling claim, see p. xliv of the Introduction.
 
 7.29 we may define a cause:on Hume’s famous two definitions, see pp. xlv–xlvi of the Introduction. In ‘defining’ a cause, Hume is acknowledgingthat the notion is a legitimateone, despite any impression to thecontrary that his arguments might have given. Treatise 1.4.5.32 provides perhaps the Notes to Pages 58–63 195 most explicit statement of this: ‘all objects, which are found to be constantly conjoin’d, are upon that account only to be regarded as causes and effects’.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
