xxxii Introduction His critical salvo delivered, Hume soon turns back to his scientific theme, emphasizing the ‘many positive advantages, which result from an accurate scrutiny into the powers and faculties of human nature’.
 
 It might be suggested that any such supposed ‘science is uncertain and chimerical’, but Hume responds to this suggestion by insisting that at least some kind of ‘mental geography, or delineation of the distinct parts and powers of the mind’ is clearly defensible and well within our grasp (E1.13–14). Moreover our scientific ambitions can legitimately extend deeper than this mere ‘ordering and distinguishing [of] the operations of the mind’: May we not hope, that philosophy, if cultivated with care . . . may carry its researches still farther, and discover, at least in some degree, the secret springs and principles, by which the human mind is actuated in its operations? (E1.15) Just as Brahe, Kepler, and others, by ‘ordering and distinguishing’ the apparent motions of the planets, had prepared the way for Newton to build on their work and reveal the hidden laws underlying such motion, so philosophers—having established a reliable mental geography— can then aspire to uncover the secret springs and principles that generate the observable behaviour of the mind.
 
 9. Sections II and III: The Origin and Association of Ideas Section II of the Enquirysets out the basic principles of Hume’s ‘Theory of Ideas’, most of which is derivative from Locke’s Essay concerning Human Understanding. It is perhaps due to the influence of Locke’s attack on innatism (cf. §3above) that the origin of ideas is given such a prominent position by Hume, but this emphasis is rather misleading, for it plays an important role only in one later section of the Enquiry (Section VII), and even here in Section II Hume’s explicit discussion of the innate ideas controversy merits only a note (E 2.9 endnote [A]).
 
 Ideas and Impressions Locke, like Descartes, had used the vague word ‘idea’ for ‘whatsoever is the object of the understanding when a man thinks’ (Essay, I. i. 8).
 
 Thus according to Locke, anyone who sees the blue sky or feels a pain has in his mind an idea of that colour or of that sensation, and Introduction xxxiii likewise anyone who merely thinks about the sky or contemplates pain also has in his mind corresponding ideas.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
