If you really want to understand this, you have to ask the author himself. It’s enough if I can show smart people that this is a tricky problem, and whoever solves it will have to say something totally new and surprising, just like the problem itself.

From what has been said, you can see that the ideas in this book are very doubtful and make us realize that human understanding is limited and imperfect.

Most reasoning is based on experience. The belief we get from experience is just a special feeling or a strong idea that comes from getting used to something. But that’s not all. When we believe something exists even if we don’t see it anymore, that belief is just the same kind of feeling. The author talks about many other doubtful ideas and finally says we accept what our minds tell us and use reason only because we have no choice. Philosophy would make us completely uncertain if nature weren’t stronger than it.

I will finish explaining the author’s ideas with two opinions that seem to be his own, like most of his ideas.

He says the soul, as far as we can imagine, is just a group or chain of different feelings like hot and cold, love and anger, thoughts and senses—all connected but without any simple, unchanging self. Descartes said that thinking is the essence of the mind—not just one thought, but thinking itself. That doesn’t make sense because everything that exists is specific and particular. So it must be our different specific feelings that make up the mind. I say these feelings make up the mind, not that they belong to it. The mind is not a thing where feelings live inside. That idea is just as confusing as Descartes’ idea that thinking itself is the mind’s essence.

We don’t have any idea of “substance” because we only get ideas from impressions, and we never get an impression of any substance, whether material or spiritual. We only know particular qualities and feelings. Like our idea of a peach is just its taste, color, shape, size, and texture. Our idea of a mind is only a bunch of particular feelings, with no idea of any “substance” simple or complex.

The second idea I want to mention is about Geometry. Since the author says you can’t divide space forever, he has to argue against the math ideas that say you can—and these are the only strong arguments for infinite division.
