His Abrégé de l’histoire de Port-Royal tells about the ‘miracle of the holy thorn,’ where Pascal’s niece Marguerite Périer was healed from a bad eye ulcer by using a thorn that was said to come from the crown of thorns Jesus wore.

The bishop of Tournay, Gilbert de Choiseul du Plessis-Praslin (1613–89), supported the story of this miracle, and Racine wrote about it.

The queen-regent of France, Anne of Austria (1601–66), who was the widow of King Louis XIII and ruled while her son Louis XIV was a child, sent her own doctor, M. Félix, to check out the miracle. He came back believing it was real, but she didn’t say anything publicly because she wanted to avoid religious arguments.

Dr. Berkeley and Bayle: Pierre Bayle (1647–1706) was a French Protestant writer, famous for his Historical and Critical Dictionary (1697). Bayle’s book collected many skeptical ideas, which the philosopher Hume used when writing his Treatise of Human Nature.

But Bayle was different from Hume because he was a fideist, meaning he thought faith was more important than reason. This might be why Hume’s character Philo in his Dialogues concerning Natural Religion (1779) seems to support fideism near the end.

Mathematical points are tiny points that can’t be divided or measured.

Some things are thought to be infinitely divisible. In the first two editions of Hume’s Enquiry (1748 and 1750), he added these sentences: “In general, the ideas of bigger, smaller, or equal, which are important in geometry, are not as exact as people think to base strong conclusions on.

Ask a mathematician what he means by saying two things are equal, and he will say that the idea of equality can’t really be defined. Just showing two equal things is enough to understand it. This means it’s based on how things look or feel to us, so it can’t prove ideas that go against what we see or imagine.”

Hume’s idea about abstraction is explained in his Treatise 1.1.7.

Hume wanted to avoid silly contradictions because these kinds of confusing ideas were often used to support religion by showing that human reason is weak, which was supposed to make people rely more on faith.

“Ex nihilo, nihil fit” means “nothing comes from nothing,” so everything that exists must have a cause. Hume talked about this idea in Treatise 1.3.3 and said it can’t be proven just by thinking or logic, but he believed it was true based on experience.
