So great is the suggestive power of places, that it is no accident that they shape our memory training.’ 5.20 the belief . . . is always presupposed: Hume is about to make the claim that the operation of custom is similar or analogous to the operation of the three principles of association (resemblance, contiguity, and causation— see3.2‒3). But he first points out a difference: custom leads to new beliefs, whereas the three principles operate to enliven thoughts about things that we already believe to exist.
 
 5.21 pre-established harmony: a notion associated with the great German philosopher Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646‒1716), who advocated a world-view having some resemblance to occasionalism (cf. §6 of the Introduction, above). Leibniz agreed with Malebranche in denying any actual causation between objects, but whereas Malebranche saw their apparent interaction as effected by God on each occasion, Leibniz attributed this instead to the self-contained behaviour of each object, acting quite independently but all choreographed in advance by God to act in a pre-established harmony. Hume’s comment evinces some amusement at the parallel between Leibniz’s highly theological theory and his own naturalistic view.
 
 5.21 final causes: explanation of change by reference to purposes or goals. The term is associated with Aristotle, who attributed the motion of objects to their strivingto reach their natural place in the cosmos (see §§1‒2of the Introduction, above). Again Hume’s comment is notto be taken too seriously.
 
 SECTION VI 6.0 n. 10 demonstrations, proofs, and probabilities: see §12of the Introduction, above.
 
 6.1 no such thing . . . world: Hume is a determinist: he believes that everything in the world operates according to uniform laws that could, in principle, enable prediction of what will happen from the complete current state of the world (see §§4and14of the Introduction, above).
 
 But in this section he will argue that ignorance of underlying causes leaves us relying on probability just as if the relevant events (e.g. throws of dice) were genuinely random.
 
 6.3 an inexplicable . . . nature: belief turns out to arise from probabilistic thinking in much the same way as it does from uniform custom. Hume is not claiming to give any precise explanation of this (something of a contrast to Treatise,1.3.11‒12), but will now suggest that it can ‘perhaps, in some measure, be accounted for’ given the similarity.
 
 6.4 rhubarb . . . purge . . . opium . . . soporific: a purge promotes evacuationof the bowels; a soporific makes one sleepy (cf. p. xv of the Introduction).
 
 6.4 received . . . sensible . . . difficulty: ‘received systems’ are thosethat are standardor widely accepted; ‘sensible of’ implies felt awareness.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
