They will only deny, that this makes the whole of necessity. But then they must shew, that we have an idea of something else in the actions of matter; which, according to the foregoing reasoning, is impossible.
 
 [35] Thro’ this whole book, there are great pretensions to new discoveries in philosophy; but if any thing can intitle the author to so glorious a name as that of an inventor, ’tis the use he makes of the principle of the association of ideas, which enters into most of his philosophy. Our imagi- 662 nation has a great authority over our ideas; and there are no ideas that are different from each other, which it cannot separate, and join, and compose into all the varieties of fiction. But notwithstanding the empire of the imagination, there is a secret tie or union among particular ideas, which causes the mind to conjoin them more frequently together, and makes the one, upon its appearance, introduce the other. Hence arises what we call theaproposof discourse: hence the connection of writing: and hence that thread, or chain of thought, which a man naturally supports even in the loosest reverie. These principles of association are reduced to three, viz.
 
 Resemblance; a picture naturally makes us think of the man it was drawn for.Contiguity; when St. Dennisis mentioned, the idea of Parisnaturally occurs.Causation; when we think of the son, we are apt to carry our attention to the father. ’Twill be easy to conceive of what vast consequence these principles must be in the science of human nature, if we consider, that so far as regards the mind, these are the only links that bind the parts of the universe together, or connect us with any person or object exterior to ourselves. For as it is by means of thought only that any thing operates upon our passions, and as these are the only ties of our thoughts, they are reallyto usthe cement of the universe, and all the operations of the mind must, in a great measure, depend on them.
 
 FINIS APPENDIX II ‘Of the Immortality of the Soul’ (1755) [THISessay was originally planned for publication in a projected 1755collection called Five Dissertations, but Hume decided to withdraw it (together with another religiously ‘dangerous’ piece on suicide) prior to publication.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
