Titus Livius, also called Livy, lived around 59 BC to AD 17. He wrote a famous history of Rome from its beginning until 9 BC. Plutarch, a Greek historian from about AD 46 to 119, is best known for writing about the lives of famous Greeks and Romans.

Tacitus is another historian mentioned earlier in the book.

Vespasian, who lived from AD 9 to 79, was the first Roman emperor in the Flavian family. His sons, Titus and Domitian, became emperors after him.

Suetonius, a Roman historian from around AD 69 to 122, wrote about the lives of the Twelve Caesars, from Julius Caesar to Domitian.

Demetrius, who lived from 336 to 283 BC, was the son of Antigonus, a general under Alexander the Great. He tried to bring Alexander’s empire back together. Demetrius became king of Macedonia in 294 BC but lost his throne in 288 BC. Like Alexander, he encouraged people to see him as a god.

Cardinal De Retz (1613–79) was the archbishop of Paris. In his memoirs, he wrote about his travels in Spain and mentioned a miracle reported by Hume.

When the church “vouches” for a miracle, it means the Roman Catholic Church has checked it carefully and agrees it really happened.

Abbé Paris (1690–1727) was a famous religious leader in Paris known for being very holy. He started a small religious group and died young because of extreme fasting and self-punishment, like wearing clothes with iron spikes. After he died, people took parts of his hair and clothes as holy relics. An old woman who kissed his feet was said to have been healed from paralysis. This miracle made many sick people visit his tomb.

Abbé Paris followed the ideas of Cornelius Jansen, a bishop who died in 1638. Jansen wrote about God’s grace and strict predestination, meaning God decides everything, including who is saved. His followers, called Jansenists, believed in strict moral rules. Jansenism caused big fights with the Jesuits, another Catholic group, who thought people could earn salvation by doing good things. The Pope made three official statements against Jansenism in 1643, 1653, and 1713. The last one was pushed by King Louis XIV of France, who wanted everyone to agree on religion to keep the country united.

Hume might focus on Jansenism because most people, whether Protestant or Catholic, didn’t like it. So, many readers would be doubtful about the miracles linked to Jansenism.

Jesuits are members of the Society of Jesus, started by Ignatius Loyola (1491–1556). They are a Catholic group known for being smart, teaching, and doing missionary work to spread their faith.
