His famous cogito, ‘I think, therefore I am’ is used to establish, by example, the unique reliability of rational ‘clear and distinct’ perception, and also that the mind’s essenceis thinking. He aims to evade scepticism by proving God’s existence from his own (supposedly innate) idea of a perfect being together with causal principles which he claims to perceive clearly and distinctly (e.g. that any idea must have a cause that is at least as perfect and real). Having established the existence of a perfect—and therefore nondeceiving—creator, he then concludes that human faculties must be essentiallytrustworthy if used appropriately, and this vindicates the project of investigating the world scientifically, relying on our natural senses and innate judgement rather than tradition.
 
 Descartes had strong interests in natural philosophy (i.e. science); for example he was the first to give a full explanation of the rainbow, and founded analytic geometry—the reduction of geometrical problems to algebra—through his invention of what are still called ‘Cartesian coordinates’. He also formed the hypothesis of the circulation of the blood in opposition to Galen’s traditional view (independently of William Harvey who published his more famous account in 1632), and concluded that the Earth orbits the Sun, echoing Copernicus (1543) and Galileo (1610). For an account of Descartes’s very influential physical theory, based on the notion that the essence of matter is extension, see §2of the Introduction, above.
 
 Descartes is explicitly mentioned twice in the Enquiry, together with the Cartesian movement named after him (7.25endnote [D], 12.3). The most prominent Cartesian of the later seventeenth century, Nicolas Malebranche (1638‒1715), is also mentioned twice by name (1.4,7.25endnote [D]), and his ‘occasionalist’ theory is criticized at length at 7.21‒5. For a brief account of this theory and his arguments for it, see §6of the Introduction.
 
 Some of Hume’s own arguments in Section VII of the Enquiry, for the conclusion that causal necessity is unperceivable, are reminiscent of Malebranche.
 
 Thomas Hobbes Thomas Hobbes (1588‒1679), the first great philosopher to write in the English language, had a considerable—though unacknowledged— influence on Hume. Still today important as a political philosopher, he expressed the ambition to give a genuinely scientific account of man, based on theories of the material world, the passions, and natural law. There are hints of a similar structure in Hume’s Treatise, and very clear Hobbesian echoes in Section VIII of the Enquiry(see §4of the Introduction, above), where Hume presents a compatibilist position serving a fundamentally similar agenda: the legitimation of a deterministic science of man.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
