Hume’s once scandalous message has thus become almost scientific ‘common sense’. Outside the laboratory, however, we still inhabit a world infused with ancient assumptions, and largely blind to the need for, or the consequences of, their abandonment. So Hume’s attempt to forge an empirically based, naturalistic world-view retains a unique contemporary relevance.
 
 Hume’sfirst publication, A Treatise of Human Nature(1739–40), began as ‘an attempt to introduce the experimental method of reasoning into moral subjects’. But in both advocating and pursuing the empirical study of the human world, the juvenile Hume ‘was carry’d away by the Heat of Youth & Invention’ (see p. 163), producing a long work in which his strokes of critical genius were confusingly mingled with unrealistically ambitious psychological generalizations and—at least in Book I—unresolved sceptical paradoxes. Hume quickly regrettedthis, as his letters testify, and even before the final Book III of the Treatisewas delivered from the press, he was already reformulating his approach in the short 1740 Abstract (included in this volume as Appendix I). By 1748 he had produced a second major work, the Enquiry concerning Human Understanding,1 following the pattern of theAbstractin focusing on his central philosophical message, expanding and clarifying the key arguments that support it (for example in Sections IV, VII, and VIII), and limiting his psychological speculations to modest hints of ‘explications and analogies’ (E5.9). The sceptical paradoxes are also limited or ‘mitigated’, but this, perhaps surprisingly, gives the Enquirymore rather than less critical bite. Anyone who reads the Treatise—with its radical suggestions that even our trustin logic is ill-founded, and that even our basic beliefs in external objects and the self are incoherent—may be puzzled but is unlikely to be convinced. If everythingis equally doubtful, then most people will hang on to what is comfortable, and though radical scepticism may do something to jolt the complacent dogmatist, it is unlikely to yield any settled change of mind. The Enquiry is more potent, because more discriminating. It reveals the relatively humble basis of 1 Called ‘the first Enquiry’ to distinguish it from the 1751 Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
