12.27 Hume says that only math can really prove things because math ideas are clear and connected in just the right way.  

12.27 The square of the hypotenuse: This is called Pythagoras’ Theorem. You can check the note at 4.1 for more about it.  

12.28 CAESAR: Julius Caesar lived a long time ago (100–44 BC). He became the ruler of Rome after beating his rivals and ended the Republic. After he was killed by Brutus and Cassius, who wanted to bring the Republic back, there was another civil war. Octavian won and became the first Roman emperor, called Augustus. Hume talks about Caesar’s book The Gallic War to show a fact that we can trust based on good evidence.  

12.28 the angel GABRIEL: Gabriel appears in the Bible, in the book of Luke, where he tells Mary she will have Jesus. When Hume talks about Gabriel, he is hinting that it’s possible God might not exist, because there’s no contradiction in thinking that. So, any argument trying to prove God exists just by thinking about it (like Anselm’s or Descartes’s Ontological Argument) will fail.  

12.29 It is only experience: Hume repeats his idea from earlier that we only know about cause and effect through experience. He also suggests that any argument trying to prove God exists by cause and effect has to be based on what we experience. This makes it impossible to argue about God beyond what we can actually see or feel, like in the Cosmological Argument.  

12.32 But its best . . . revelation: This sentence sounds religious but might be fake or misleading. Hume says that belief in God is based on reason only if it’s supported by experience. But earlier sections show that Christian beliefs don’t have real proof through miracles, and natural theology doesn’t prove anything. So, belief in God isn’t really based on experience at all. Also, see what happened to religious books at 12.34.  

12.33 Morals . . . sentiment: Here, ‘criticism’ means judging art or beauty. Hume says that both morals and judging art come from feelings, not reason. You can see this in the Introduction, page xlviii.  

12.34 Commit it then to the flames: Burning books that go against religion was common. Maybe Hume is saying the wrong books got burned, especially since this section started by talking about atheism.
