202 Notes to Pages 95–97 10.41 And whoever . . . to it: Hume’s ironical ending is a conventional piece of ‘theological lying’, preserving the decencies by formally acknowledging theism. See p. xxiii of the Introduction.
 
 SECTION XI 11.0 Of a PARTICULAR PROVIDENCE . . . STATE: in the first edition of 1748, this section was entitled ‘Of thePracticalConsequencesof Natural Religion’, which Hume perhaps came to think was too pointed, since the conclusion of the section is that ‘natural religion’— the attempt to establish religious conclusions by appeal to the nature of the world—has no practical consequences whatever. The changed title focuses on the notion of God’s particularprovidence towards individuals (as opposed to His generalprovidence in establishing beneficial laws of nature), and Christians’ hope for a ‘future state’, that is, an afterlife in heaven. It is striking, in view of the latter, that Hume omits the powerful arguments against immortality that he put in his suppressed essay on the topic (see Appendix II, above).
 
 11.1 he advanced . . . approve: Hume here distances himself from his most religiously dangerous views, by putting them in the mouth of a sceptical friend. See §4of the Introduction, above.
 
 11.2 PROTAGORAS . . . SOCRATES:Protagoras(c.485‒410bc) was the first of the ancient Greek Sophists, most famous for his advocacy of relativism (i.e. denial of objective truth) as recorded in Plato’s dialogue Theaetetus. He was banished from Athens for heretically questioning the existence of the Greek gods. Socrates(469‒399bc), Plato’s teacher and reputedly one of the greatest philosophers of antiquity, was convicted of impiety and corrupting the youth of Athens through his teaching. His punishment was to commit suicide by drinking hemlock, as famously recorded in Plato’s Phaedo.
 
 11.2 EPICURUS . . . EPICUREANS: see Glossarial Index. The footnoted reference is to Lucian (cf. explanatory note to 10.22).
 
 11.2 the wisest of . . . emperors: an allusion to Marcus Aurelius (cf. explanatory note to 10.22). The footnoted reference is to Lucian and to Dio Cassius Cocceianus (c.150‒235), who wrote a history of Rome in eighty books, extending from the foundation of the city to 229.
 
 11.4 a wise magistrate: this discussion, presumably written in the 1745‒8 period, has a strong autobiographical resonance. In 1745, Hume’s application for the Chair of Moral Philosophy at Edinburgh was vetoed by the Town Council under pressure from the Church. Hume’s sceptical friend now argues that a wise magistrate should tolerate irreligious speculation, since such speculation does not really have its alleged ‘pernicious consequences’, being instead ‘entirely indifferent to the peace of society and security of government’.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
