Mummeries are silly ceremonies that don’t really mean much. Jealousy, resentment, and suspicion were common in the Muscovy principality of Moscow, which is now Russia.

Judicature means the system of justice or courts. Narration is just telling a story. Natural philosophy refers to natural science, which studies how things in nature work. A juncture is a state of affairs or a particular moment.

Justest means the most fair or deserved. Nay means no, but it can also mean even more than that. Justness is being fair and reasonable. A landskip is a landscape, the view of the land.

Negligences are careless mistakes. Latitude means the range or freedom to act. Laudable means something worthy of praise. Nice means precise and needing care.

To lend is to give something temporarily. Letters can mean written documents or learned authors. Nisus means effort or trying hard. Polite literature is refined or fancy writing. Nowise means not at all.

A nursery is a place where young things are raised or cared for. Liberal means generous or open-minded. Young means not old. A libertine is someone who thinks freely, especially about religion.

Obloquy means abuse or harsh criticism. To obviate means to avoid or get rid of a problem. Licence means too much freedom, often in a bad way.

Oeconomy means economy or an organized system. Lights means perspectives or ways of seeing things. An office can mean a role or job. A good office is a helpful action.

Magnanimous means noble or generous. Omnipotent means all-powerful. To magnify means to praise or make something seem bigger. Open means clear or easy to understand.

A mart is a marketplace. Opulent means wealthy or rich. Mediate means indirect. Ought means should or anything.

Medium is the middle point or state. Outmost means the farthest or most extreme. Overmatch means to be stronger or better than someone else.

Members are parts of the body. Own means to admit or accept. Mensuration means measurement. Palpable means obvious or clear.

Methodized means organized or put in order. Palsy means paralysis. Mitigated means made less severe.

A panegyric is a speech or writing that praises someone. Modern means recent or new, compared to ancient. To partake means to have some part of something.

Moment means force or energy. Partizans are supporters of a cause or group. Parts mean capacities or abilities. Moral reasoning is thinking about right and wrong.

Peculiar means unique or special. Peevish means easily annoyed. Mortified means hurt or embarrassed. Penetration means deep understanding or insight.

To mount means to climb or go up. Perception is an impression or idea. Prodigious means huge or amazing.
