He wrote nothing himself, and the works of his followers— like those of most ancient philosophers other than Plato and Aristotle— were suppressed during the early Christian era. Their arguments were preserved chiefly through the compendious Outlines of Pyrrhonism by Sextus Empiricus (a Greek of the third century ad), which was rediscovered in the sixteenth century and had a major influence in casting doubt on the medieval consensus. Descartes’s pivotal use of sceptical arguments to dismiss anything that cannot be perceived ‘clearly and distinctly’ to be true (including the established philosophy of the medieval schools) can probably be traced to the rediscovery of Sextus.
 
 Plato (427‒347bc) was one of the pre-eminent philosophers of antiquity, particularly influential through his founding of the Academy at Athens, and also in later years because Neoplatonism proved amenable to incorporation within Christianity (most notably through Augustine of Hippo, ad354‒430). In the centuries after Plato, under Arcesilaus (c.315‒242bc), Carneades (c.213‒129bc), and others, his Academy became synonymous with sceptical thought, although ‘Academic scepticism’ was generally less radical than that of the Pyrrhonians, accepting that some things are more probablethan others, even if all are uncertain. These ideas were preserved into the modern era principally through the writings of Marcus Tullius Cicero, a Roman who briefly studied at the Academy and was also influenced by Stoicism (see below).
 
 It is debatable how far Hume’s characterization of Pyrrhonian scepticism is faithful to its historical sources. He draws a contrast between ‘excessive’ Pyrrhonian scepticism (12.21,12.23‒5), which he understands as involving a denial of all belief, and ‘mitigated’ Academic scepticism (5.1,12.0,12.24), which is far less extreme. As he expounds it, Academic scepticism involves only a denial of dogmatic certainty, while allowing for rational discrimination between beliefs that are more, or less, probable.
 
 He also connects this with a second type of ‘mitigated scepticism’ (12.25‒6), which advocates a limitation of our enquiries to ‘such subjects as are best adapted to the narrow capacity of human understanding’. Hume most explicitly identifies himself as an Academic sceptic in Part iii of Section XII, though he also expresses sympathy with sceptical views at a number of other places (e.g. 4.0, 5.1, 7.28). However, he clearly dissociates himself from extreme scepticism, both of the Pyrrhonian (12.21, 12.23) and Cartesian (12.3) varieties, dismissing them as unsustainable and self-defeating.
 
 Epicurus and Epicureanism Epicurus (341‒271bc) was a materialist and atomist, accounting for our situation in the universe as due to the ever-changing configuration of atoms in the infinite void. Man lives and dies as part of this nature, with 222 Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers no supernatural obligations and nothing to hope for or fear after death.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
