166 Appendix IV I could wish your friend had not denominated me an infidel writer, on account of ten or twelve pages which seem to him to have that tendency: while I have wrote so many volumes on history, literature, politics, trade, morals, which, in that particular at least, are entirely inoffensive. Is a man to be called a drunkard, because he has been seen fuddled once in his lifetime?
 
 Having said so much to your friend, who is certainly a very ingenious man, tho a little too zealous for a philosopher; permit me also the freedom of saying a word to yourself. Whenever I have had the pleasure to be in your company, if the discourse turned upon any common subject of literature or reasoning, I always parted from you both entertained and instructed. But when the conversation was diverted by you from this channel towards the subject of your profession; tho I doubt not but your intentions were very friendly towards me, I own I never received the same satisfaction: I was apt to be tired, and you to be angry. I would therefore wish for the future, wherever my good fortune throws me in your way, that these topics should be forborne between us. I have, long since, done with all inquiries on such subjects, and am become incapable of instruction; tho I own no one is more capable of conveying it than yourself.
 
 After having given you the liberty of communicating to your friend what part of this letter you think proper, I remain, Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, david hume. (HLi.349–51) To the Reverend George Campbell, 7June1762 [Evidently Hume’s comments on Campbell’s manuscript had some effect, particularly on the style of the published Dissertation. In this letter directly to the author, Hume expresses his appreciation, but also his general reluctance to enter into controversies with philosophical opponents (which, regrettably for his commentators, he retained throughout his life). He also makes interesting comments about the genesis of his famous argument against miracles.] Dear Sir, It has so seldom happened that controversies in philosophy, much more in theology, have been carried on without producing a personal quarrel between the parties, that I must regard my present situation as somewhat extraordinary, who have reason to give you thanks for the civil and obliging manner in which you have conducted the dispute against me, on so interesting a subject as that of miracles. Any little symptoms of vehemence, of which I formerly used the freedom to complain, when you favoured me with a sight of the manuscript, are either removed or explained away, or Excerpts from Hume’s Letters 167 atoned for by civilities, which are far beyond what I have any title to pretend to.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
