4.16 A medium is like a middle step in an argument that connects the reasons you start with to the conclusion you reach. Now we get to the main part of Hume’s famous doubt about induction, which was mentioned earlier. He showed that all arguments based on facts assume that things stay the same over time. Now he’s asking what reason we have to believe that. It can’t be based on what we see or on something we just know right away. So, Hume thinks the only way to be sure is if we can figure it out by reasoning that includes at least one middle step—some kind of “medium.” Check note 4.21 for more.

4.18 Moral reasoning means reasoning that isn’t 100% certain but gives us a good guess or strong likelihood. When Hume uses “moral” here, he doesn’t mean it’s about right or wrong. It just means the reasoning isn’t absolutely sure. See the Introduction, section 10, for more.

4.18 Demonstrative arguments are arguments that give us total logical certainty, like math proofs where the conclusion must be true if the starting points are true.

4.19 Experimental conclusions are things we figure out based on experience.

4.20 Hume didn’t think about statistical reasoning, which is common now. In statistics, how confident you are depends on how big your sample is. But even so, this might not solve Hume’s problem with induction because statistics assumes the sample represents the whole group, and we can’t be sure that’s true when predicting the future from the past.

4.21 The “interposing ideas” are a reference to Locke’s idea that there are intermediate steps in reasoning that link the start to the finish. Depending on how strong these links are, the argument can be totally certain or just probably true.

SECTION V  
5.1 Epictetus and other Stoics are mentioned; see the Glossary for more info.

5.1 Academic or Skeptical philosophy is also explained in the Glossary.

5.3 “Into this world” is where Hume briefly sums up the skeptical argument from Section IV, starting with the idea of Adam in the thought experiment.

5.5 Custom or Habit: Hume is just naming a natural human habit he saw. We do make guesses about facts based on repeated experience, but all these guesses include assuming things stay the same—which can’t be proven by reason. Reason doesn’t force us to believe this, but we do it anyway. So, it seems to be just how humans naturally think and act.
