Here is a list of words with their meanings to help you understand them better.

A right-angled triangle has sides with specific lengths, like (1.8, 4.4, 7.22) or (4.1, 12.27). The word "fabulous" means something legendary or amazing.

An "idea" is a thought. A "facility" means ease or skill in doing something. "Illiberal" describes someone who is narrow-minded.

"Faculties" are abilities or powers we have. "Illustrious" means famous or well-known. "False" means fake or not true.

"Imagination" is the ability to picture things in your mind. To "feign" is to pretend or make up something.

"Impertinent" means rude or disrespectful. A "fiat" is an official order or decree. "Imports" means something important.

"Fine" means something subtle or delicate. An "impression" is a feeling or idea you get from something. To "fly" means to run away or escape.

"Imprudent" means not careful or wise. To "forbear" means to stop yourself from doing something. An "impulse" is a sudden urge or feeling.

To "foretell" is to predict the future. An "imputation" is an accusation or blame. To "inculcate" means to teach something repeatedly.

"Fortuitous" means happening by chance. "Incumbent" is a duty or responsibility. To "foster" means to encourage or support.

To "incur" means to bring something bad on yourself. A "frame" is a structure or shape. "Indifference" means not caring about something.

To "furnish" means to provide. "Gaoler" is an old word for jailer. "Indifferent" means neutral or not taking sides.

"Generation" means having children or producing new life. "Indolence" means laziness. "Genius" is a great talent or spirit.

"In infinitum" means forever or without end. To "enforce" means to make sure rules are followed. A "governor" is a leader.

An "infringement" is breaking a rule. "Graces" are special gifts or favors. "Ingenuous" means honest or straightforward.

"Graver" means more serious. "Gross" means obvious or big. To "insinuate" is to suggest something in a sneaky way.

"Intangling" means getting tangled up. "Intercourse" means interactions or communication between people.

"Interest" means a benefit or stake in something. "Interposition" means stepping in or interfering. A "harangue" is a long speech.

"Interred" means buried. "Haughtiness" means being proud or arrogant. "Inundation" means a flood.

A "head" is a topic or main point. To "invent" means to create something new. "Heads" are titles or headings.

"Hid" means hidden. "Invested" means given power or authority. "Hither" means here.

"Inveterate" means stubborn or deeply fixed. "Humane" means kind and caring. "Inviolable" means cannot be broken.

A "husbandman" is a farmer. "Irresolution" means hesitation or not being sure. "Isosceles" is a type of triangle with two equal sides.
