* Where we trace the principles of the human mind through a few steps, we may be very well satisfied with our progress; considering how soon nature throws a bar to all our enquiries concerning causes, and reduces us to an acknowledgment of our ignorance. The chief obstacle, therefore, to our improvement in the moral or metaphysical sciences is the obscurity of the ideas, and ambiguity of the terms. The principal difficulty in the mathematics is the length of inferences and compass of thought, requisite to the forming of any conclusion. And, perhaps, our progress in natural philosophy is chiefly retarded by the want of proper experiments and phaenomena, which are often discovered by chance, and cannot always be found, when requisite, even by the most diligent and prudent enquiry. As moral philosophy seems hitherto to have received less improvement than either geometry or physics, we may conclude, that, if there be any difference in this respect among these sciences, the difficulties, which obstruct the progress of the former, require superior care and capacity to be surmounted.
 
 [3] There are no ideas, which occur in metaphysics, more obscure 62 and uncertain, than those of power,force,energy, or necessary connexion, of which it is every moment necessary for us to treat in all our disquisitions.We shall, therefore, endeavour, in this section, to fix, if possible, the precise meaning of these terms, and thereby remove some part of that obscurity, which is so much complained of in this species of philosophy.
 
 [4] It seems a proposition, which will not admit of much dispute, that all our ideas are nothing but copies of our impressions,* or, in other words, that it is impossible for us to thinkof any thing, which we have not antecedently felt, either by our external or internal senses.
 
 I have endeavoured11to explain and prove this proposition, and have expressed my hopes, that, by a proper application of it, men may reach a greater clearness and precision in philosophical reasonings, than what they have hitherto been able to attain. Complex ideas may, perhaps, be well known by definition, which is nothing but an enumeration of those parts or simple ideas, that compose them.
 
 But when we have pushed up definitions to the most simple ideas, and find still some ambiguity and obscurity; what resource are we 11 Section II.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
