I must confess, that there is something in the fate of opinions a little extraordinary. DesCartesinsinuated that doctrine of the universal and sole efficacy of the Deity, without insisting on it. Malebrancheand other Cartesians made it the foundation of all their philosophy.
 
 It had, however, no authority in England. Locke,* Clarke, and Cudworth,* never so much as take notice of it, but suppose all along, that matter has a real, though subordinate and derived power. By what means has it become so prevalent among our modern metaphysicians?
 
 Endnote [E] to 7.29, p. 5617 77 According to these explications and definitions, the idea of power is relative as much as that of cause; and both have a reference to an effect, or some other event constantly conjoined with the former. When we consider the unknown circumstance of an object, by which the degree or quantity of its effect is fixed and determined, we call that its power: And accordingly, it is allowed by all philosophers, that the effect is the measure of the power. But if they had any idea of power, as it is in itself, why could not they measure it in itself? The dispute*whether the force of a body in motion be as its velocity, or the square of its velocity; this dispute, I say, needed not be decided by comparing its effects in equal or unequal times; but by a direct mensuration*and comparison.
 
 As to the frequent*use of the words, Force, Power, Energy, &c. which every where occur in common conversation, as well as in philosophy; that is no proof, that we are acquainted, in any instance, with the connecting principlebetween cause and effect, or can account ultimately for the production 78 of one thing by another. These words, as commonly used, have very loose meanings annexed to them; and their ideas are very uncertain and confused. No animal can put external bodies in motion without the sentiment of a nisusor endeavour; and every animal has a sentiment or feeling from the stroke or blow of an external object, that is in motion. These sensations, which are merely animal, and from which we can à prioridraw no inference, we are apt to transfer to inanimate objects, and to suppose, that they have some such feelings, whenever they transfer or receive motion. With regard to energies, which are exerted, without our annexing to them any idea of communicated motion, we consider only the constant experienced conjunction of the events; and as we feela customary connexion between the ideas, we transfer that feeling to the objects; as nothing is more usual than to apply to external bodies every internal sensation, which they occasion.
 
 Endnote [F] to 8.22, p. 6818 94 The prevalence of the doctrine of liberty may be accounted for, from another cause, viz. a false sensation or seeming experience which we Hume’s Endnotes 125 have, or may have, of liberty or indifference, in many of our actions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
