Intelligibility is not to be had, but nor is it required, and the proper ideal of science is rather to discover and simplify the laws that describe phenomena (E4.12). Thus allcauses in science can, and should, be viewed broadly instrumentally, as Newton had done in the case of gravity and Berkeley generalized. This positive message is developed further in Section VIII, where Hume follows Hobbes in advocating a deterministic compatibilism. His new understanding of causation significantly strengthens the case, by showing that a lack of ‘intelligibility’ in the moral world is no obstacle to genuine causation or determinism concerning human action. Thus moral science—as exemplified in numerous of Hume’s essays and other works—is shown to be feasible. He then goes on to attack the rational basis for belief in God (Sections X and XI), and to advocate a ‘mitigated scepticism’ which does not aspire to certainty, limits our scientific ambitions, and restricts them to subjects within the scope of our experience (Section XII).
 
 From this perspective, both Darwinian biology and the development of science since the dawn of the twentieth century can be seen as vindicating Hume. Darwin emphasized our continuity with the animals, then relativity theory and quantum physics demonstrated conclusively that the apparent intelligibility of the world that so impressed philosophers from Aristotle to Descartes to Kant (and beyond) was largely an illusion. As a result, the rigorously empiricist and methodologically instrumentalist approach that Hume pioneered has become scientifically mainstream, and in this respect the Enquiry may today seem relatively innocuous and inoffensive. However, it still has much to teach even modern scientists, who will often stop applying their critical methods outside the laboratory, whereas Hume would advise that we take them more seriously, into the religious and moral assumptions that drive our lives. To better appreciate the force and implications of all this, let us now turn in more detail to the Enquiryitself.
 
 8. Section I: The Aims of the Enquiry Thefirst section of the Enquiryserves as an introduction, but starts out as a comparison between two species of ‘moral philosophy’ (i.e. the Introduction xxxi study of man).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
