g. a baby wouldn’t have the idea): the point is that having acquired that ideaI can then know for certain, without any empirical investigation, that all bachelors are unmarried. What makes a truth a priori is that it can be justified without appeal to experience, purely by thinking about the ideas involved. Matters of fact, by contrast, can be known to be true (or to be false) only by consulting experience.
 
 Demonstrative and Factual Reasoning A little later in Section IV, Hume draws a related distinction between types of reasoning, though he does not spend long explaining it, perhaps because it was already very familiar from the work of John Locke: All reasonings may be divided into two kinds, namely demonstrative reasoning, or that concerning relations of ideas, and moral reasoning, or that concerning matter of fact and existence. (E4.18) Demonstrativereasoning is what can be loosely called ‘deductive’ reasoning,21 in which the steps of the argument proceed with absolute certainty based on the logical relations between the ideas concerned (e.g. the kind of argument used in mathematics, such as the proof of Pythagoras’ Theorem). Factualreasoning—which Hume also calls ‘moral’ and Locke had called ‘probable’—is now commonly called ‘inductive’ inference, encompassing all sorts of everyday reasoning in which we draw apparently reasonable (but less than logically certain) conclusions based on our personal experience, testimony, our understanding of how people and things behave, and so forth.22 11. Sections IV and V: The Basis of Factual Reasoning Hume’s Fork raises the question of how we can know ‘matters of fact’ that go beyond our immediate experience of sensation and memory (E 4.3). It is in response to this enquiry that Hume develops his 21 Taking ‘deductive’ here in an informalsense, rather than the stricter alternative modern notion which limits it to reasoning within a formal system.
 
 22 In this very general sense ‘induction’ is not confined—as the term’s Aristotelian origins would suggest—to inferences that move from particular observations (e.g. of manyAs that are Bs) to a universal conclusion (e.g. that allAs are Bs); indeed Hume’s own examples are usually of particular inferences (e.g. that all observed As have been Bs, thereforethisAisB). The term is not used by Hume himself in either sense.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
