If people say they figured things out step by step, using logic and looking at effects to guess causes, I still think they used their imagination to help their thinking. Without imagination, they couldn’t switch from guessing causes to effects. They assume a better world than this one must exist for perfect gods, but they forget there’s no reason to think these gods have any qualities except what we see in the world now.

Because of this, a lot of effort is wasted trying to explain why nature sometimes looks bad, just to protect the gods’ reputation. We have to admit that the world really does have a lot of pain and disorder. People say it’s because matter is stubborn, or because of natural laws, or something like that, and that these things forced Jupiter to make humans and other creatures imperfect and unhappy. These ideas take for granted that such limits already exist in the biggest way. If you accept that, then maybe these guesses about why things are bad could make sense. But I still ask: why assume these limits are true, or why give the cause any qualities other than what we see in the effects? Why waste time trying to explain nature based on ideas that might be totally made up and don’t show up in real life?

So, the idea of gods or religion should be seen just as one way to explain what we see in the universe. But no smart thinker should ever say this idea proves any fact or change what actually happens. If you believe what you see points to certain causes, it’s okay to guess those causes exist. When dealing with something so complicated and amazing, everyone can have their own guesses and arguments.

But this is where you should stop. If you try to argue backward and say these causes must mean other facts have happened or will happen to show more about these causes, I have to warn you: you’ve left the right way of thinking about this topic. You’ve added extra qualities to the cause that don’t show up in the effects. Otherwise, you couldn’t reasonably add anything to what actually happens just to make the cause seem better.
