206 Notes to Pages 121–124 HUME’S ENDNOTES A LOCKE: John Locke (see Glossarial Index) devoted Book I of his famousEssayto an attack on ‘Innate Notions’, and is clearly the main philosopher Hume has in mind amongst ‘those, who denied innate ideas’.
 
 the schoolmen: see Glossarial Index.
 
 B TIBERIUS. . . NERO: Roman emperors (reigning ad14‒37and54‒68 respectively) famed for their immorality and abuse of power.
 
 D vis inertiae: the supposed ‘force of inertia’ that makes a body resistant to change, and hence gives it a tendency to remain in a uniform state of rest or motion until acted upon by an active force.
 
 we only mark these facts: Hume seems to be extending his generally instrumentalist interpretation of causation (see Introduction, pp. xix, xxviii) to the sorts of quantitative powers and forces found in physics.
 
 In the Treatise, by contrast, he confined his attention to relations between types of specific events rather than variable interactions mediated by mathematical relationships. (This change might explain the contrast betweenT1.3.15andE9.5endnote [H].) Sir ISAAC NEWTON . . . second causes: see pp. xix–xx and §6 of the Introduction. Hume seems in this endnote to be distinguishing between Newton and his followers, presumably so as to refuse them the great authority of his name. ‘Second causes’ are causes in nature, as opposed to God’s own power, but some of those influenced by Newton embraced occasionalism, denying that anything but God has genuine efficacy (see also pp. 226, 228).
 
 DES CARTES. . . MALEBRANCHE. . . LOCKE: see Glossarial Index.
 
 CLARKE, andCUDWORTH:Samuel Clarke(1675‒1729) was an English theologian and philosopher, best known at the time for his Boyle Lectures in defence of Christianity, and today for his correspondence with Leibniz (cf. explanatory note to 5.21), in which he defended a Newtonian view of space and time. Clarke’s popular Cosmological Argument for God’s existence is thought likely to be the model for the similar argument advanced by Demea, and refuted by Cleanthes, in Part IX of Hume’s Dialogues concerning Natural Religion.Ralph Cudworth (1617‒88) was leader of the Cambridge Platonists, in its day an influential group of whom Henry More (1614‒87) was also a prominent member.
 
 Attracted by Descartes’s dualism and also his ‘mechanical philosophy’, Cudworth adopted a combination of mechanistic atomism and Platonic metaphysics which he believed to have originated with Moses (and been transmitted to the Greeks by Pythagoras). The principal target of his arguments was Hobbes, against whom he sought both to refute determinism as applied to human action and to establish the eternal truth of morality as depending on Platonic ideas (rather than the Hobbesian state). His daughter Damaris, as Lady Masham, was a close friend of Locke and corresponded with Leibniz.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
