APPENDIX IV Excerpts from Hume’s Letters [THEexcerpts reprinted here shed light on different aspects of the Enquiryand its background. Several concern the Treatise of Human Nature, Hume’s first book which he published in 1739(Books I and II) and 1740(Book III), and his increasing dissatisfaction with that ‘juvenile work’. As reported in ‘My Own Life’ (see Appendix V), this dissatisfaction led to his ‘recasting’ of the material to create the two Enquiries and the Dissertation on the Passions, with the firstEnquiryinheriting what remained from Book I and the Book II sections on ‘Liberty and Necessity’. Other excerpts concern the religious content of the Enquiry, especially the controversial Section X on miracles. Hume was of course fully aware that such sceptical arguments would provoke opposition, and it is interesting to see his changing attitude to this as reflected in these letters.] To Henry Home, from London, 2December1737 [Hume writes this letter to his kinsman Henry Home (generally known by his later title of Lord Kames) about some deletions that he is making from his Treatise of Human Natureprior to publication. Hume says that he is removing parts— evidently dealing with religion—that might be offensive to Dr Joseph Butler (1692–1752), an Anglican bishop whose major philosophical work, The Analogy of Religion, had been published the previous year. Hume plans to give Butler a copy of the Treatisein the hope of a good opinion. The letter indicates that the eventualTreatiseis, in a sense, incomplete, and that Hume’s interest in his philosophy’s religious implications was there from the start. The letter also demonstrates in particular that Hume had written some material on miracles over a year before the publication of the Treatise, which also tends to undermine the old view (expressed by Selby-Bigge in the introduction to his Enquiryedition) that the religious material was artificially and rather frivolously added to the Enquiryto spice it up, as a means of provoking public interest, rather than from any serious philosophical concern.] Having a frankt Letter I was resolv’d to make Use of it, & accordingly enclose some Reasonings concerning Miracles, which I once thought of publishing with the rest, but which I am afraid will give too much Offence even as the World is dispos’d at present. There is Something in the turn of Thought & a good deal in the Turn of Expression, which will not perhaps appear so proper for want of knowing the Context: But the Force of the Argument you’ll be judge of as it stands. Tell me your Thoughts of it. Is not the Style too diffuse?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
