His most significant legacy was in reviving Epicurean atomism, though with important modifications (e.g. unlike Epicurus he viewed space as isotropic, with no intrinsic ‘up’ or ‘down’). Whether directly or indirectly, this was to influence Boyle, Locke, and Newton, and thus the development of modern science, as explained in §3of the Introduction, above.
 
 Locke and the ‘Modern’ or ‘New’ Philosophy John Locke (1632‒1704), widely considered the greatest ever English philosopher (Hume, of course, being Scottish), was also arguably the most important single influence on Hume. Though now most noted as an epistemologist, he also wrote major works on the theory of politics, property, education, and religion, becoming a standard-bearer for liberalism and tolerant moderation. In the early eighteenth century he was possibly the most famous intellectual in the western world, and his influence persisted throughout that century, as evident for example in the American Declaration of Independence of 1776(which echoes his words and phrasing). Not surprisingly, Locke is mentioned several times in the pages of the Enquiry (1.4,2.9endnote [A], 6.0n.10,7.8n.12,7.25endnote [D]).
 
 For discussion of Locke’s epistemological views, see §3 and §6 of the Introduction, above. His approach has some significant similarities with that of Descartes, notably in mounting a vigorous attack on Aristotelian positions, and in adopting a distinction between primary and secondary qualities together with a representative theory of perception. This combination of positions was common to most of the ‘modern’ philosophers of the period (contrasting with the ‘ancient’ Aristotelians). Hume’s references to ‘the modern philosophy’ (e.g. Treatise1.4.4), ‘modern enquirers’ (E12.15), and ‘the new philosophy’ (E7.25endnote [D]) should be interpreted accordingly, though his emphasis on solidity as a primary quality clearly indicates that he has Locke’s formulation specifically in mind.
 
 Locke’s epistemology contrasts most sharply with that of Descartes in its relatively rigorous empiricism, basing our ideas and understanding of the world on experience and probability rather than the alleged innate certainties of pure reason.
 
 Berkeley and ‘Modern Metaphysicians’ George Berkeley (1685‒1753), Anglican bishop of Cloyne in Ireland from 1734, is commonly thought of as the second of the three classical ‘British Empiricists’, lined up with Locke and Hume against the three ‘Continental Rationalists’ Descartes, Spinoza, and Leibniz. But this is a crude oversimplification, both brought about by (and in its turn promoting) the neglect of philosophers and trends that fit uneasily into that simplistic structure. It is true that Berkeley’s arguments react mainly to 226 Glossarial Index of Major Philosophers Locke, and also that Hume adopts some of these (most notably against the primary/secondary quality distinction at E12.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
