If a person tries to imagine the universe just from their own ideas and what they know, they wouldn’t be able to figure out what kind of world it really is or decide which way things should be. Since nothing they clearly understand would seem impossible, every idea they imagine would seem just as likely. They wouldn’t have a good reason to pick one idea over another because all ideas could be true.

Then, when they look at the real world, at first, they wouldn’t be able to explain why anything happens, or why the whole universe works the way it does. Their imagination might come up with many different stories or explanations, and all of them could be possible. But since all ideas seem possible, they wouldn’t be able to pick one that makes the most sense by themselves. Only experience can help someone figure out the real reason behind things.

According to this way of thinking, Demea, it means (and even Cleanthes agrees) that just seeing order or a plan in things doesn’t prove there was a designer. It only proves that if we have seen order come from a designer before. We can’t say for sure that matter itself can’t create order without a mind. It’s just as possible that things could naturally fall into place on their own as it is that a mind arranges them. Both ideas are equally possible. But from experience, we see a difference. If you throw steel pieces together, they won’t make a watch by themselves. Stone, wood, and mortar won’t build a house without someone planning it. But ideas in a human mind somehow arrange themselves into plans for watches or houses.

So, experience shows that the original source of order is in the mind, not in matter. When we see similar effects, we assume they have similar causes. The way things are organized in the universe is like how machines made by people are put together. So, the causes must be similar too.

But, Cleanthes, do you really think you stayed calm and logical when you compared the universe to houses, ships, furniture, and machines? Just because they are similar in some ways, it doesn’t mean their causes are the same. Thought, design, and intelligence that we see in people and animals are only some of the forces in the universe, just like heat, cold, attraction, repulsion, and many others we see every day.
