16, 4.21). All this leaves only ‘moral’ (factual or inductive) argument from experience, but even if experience might reliably tell us what powers objects have had in the past, it cannot justify any inference beyond that past experience, except by taking for granted the principle that we are trying to establish, which would be viciously circular (E4.19). Having thus ruled out intuition, demonstration, sensation, and factual inference, the upshot is that none of these conventionally accepted sources of evidence can provide any foundation for the principle of uniformity. Hence, Hume concludes, ‘it is not reasoning which engages us to suppose the past resembling the future, and to expect similar effects from causes, which are, to appearance, similar’ (E4.23). It seems, then, that we can give no solid rational basis whatever for our only method of establishing matters of fact ‘beyond the present testimony of our senses, or the records of our memory’, and this result is Hume’s famous scepticism about induction.
 
 Custom and Belief Section V of the Enquirystarts with a paragraph commending philosophical scepticism, strongly contrasting with the typical view of the time which saw the sceptic as a dangerous enemy of religion and morality.23 In opposition to this view, Hume goes on to stress that theoretical sceptical doubts, even if founded on impeccable philosophical argument, cannot in practice undermine our natural human tendency to draw inferences and form beliefs: Though we should conclude . . . as in the foregoing section, that, in all reasonings from experience, there is a step taken by the mind, which is not supported by any argument or process of the understanding; there is no danger, that these reasonings, on which almost all knowledge depends, will ever be affected by such a discovery. If the mind be not engaged by argument to make this step, it must be induced by some other principle of equal weight and authority (E5.2) 23 Hume’sLetter from a Gentleman, quoted in the previous paragraph, was written to defend himself against a vitriolic pamphlet which had accused him of ‘Universal Scepticism . . . downright Atheism . . . denying the Immateriality of the Soul . . . sapping the Foundations of Morality’ (L17–18).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
