These two Instances may suffice to show us the Nature and Importance of this Species of Philosophy.
 
 SECTION III [Section III originally continued significantly beyond its current ending, starting with an added final sentence in paragraph 3. The additional material varied between the editions from 1748to1772, but was deleted in the final1777edition.
 
 The text below is taken from the 1772edition, except that Hume’s footnote referringto Aristotle is here given in translation only, and with a modern reference.] [ . . . is compleat and entire.] Instead of entering into a detail of this kind, which would lead into many useless subtilties, we shall consider some of the effects of this connexion upon the passions and imagination; where we may open a field of speculation more entertaining, and perhaps more instructive, than the other.
 
 [4] As a man is a reasonable being, and is continually in pursuit of happiness, which he hopes to attain by the gratification of some passion or affection, he seldom acts or speaks or thinks without a purpose and intention.
 
 He has still some object in view; and however improper the means may sometimes be, which he chuses for the attainment of his end, he never loses view of an end; nor will he so much as throw away his thoughts or reflections, where he hopes not to reap some satisfaction from them.
 
 [5] In all compositions of genius, therefore, it is requisite, that the writer have some plan or object; and though he may be hurried from this plan by the vehemence of thought, as in an ode, or drop it carelessly, as in an epistle or essay, there must appear some aim or intention, in his first setting out, if not in the composition of the whole work. A production without a design would resemble more the ravings of a madman, than the sober efforts of genius and learning.
 
 [6] As this rule admits of no exception, it follows, that, in narrative compositions, the events or actions, which the writer relates, must be connected together, by some bond or tye: They must be related to each otherin the imagination, and form a kind of Unity, which may bring them under one plan or view, and which may be the object or end of the writer in his first undertaking.
 
 [7] This connecting principle among the several events, which form the subject of a poem or history, may be very different, according to the different designs of the poet or historian. Ovid*has formed his plan upon the connecting principle of resemblance. Every fabulous transformation, Textual Variants 179 produced by the miraculous power of the gods, falls within the compass of his work.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
