We simply cannot help forming beliefs through custom, as Hume has already explained in Section V, even though we have no rational basis for the assumption of uniformity on which such beliefs are founded.
 
 This appeal to the unavoidability of belief can be used to dismiss total scepticism—i.e. ‘undistinguished doubts’ (E12.24) about everything—but it need not imply an indiscriminate acceptanceof whatever we are inclined to believe. Indeed Hume suggests that a sceptical appreciation of the weakness of our faculties, combined witha recognition of the practical inevitability of belief, can lead us to a form of undogmaticmitigatedscepticism in which our doubts and beliefs are cautiously assessed and ‘corrected by common sense and reflection’.
 
 It is also natural to combine this caution with a modest restriction of our enquiries to ‘such subjects as are best adapted to the narrow capacity of human understanding’ (E12.25), given that even in common life, we cannot provide any solid reason for supposing our faculties to be reliable. Empirical science can comfortably be accommodated by this approach, in so far as it is simply a more systematic application of everyday inductive reasoning, that is, ‘the reflections of common life, methodized and corrected’. Moreover the earlier sections of the Enquiry have already shown what such methodizing and correction involves, and how custom can ground such procedures as the explanation of phenomena by relatively simple and potentially quantifiable laws (E 4.12–13, 7.25 endnote [D], 7.29 endnote [E]), the calculation of probabilities by past frequencies (E 6.2–4, 10.3–7), the systematic search for hidden causes (E 8.13–15), the use of analogy (E 9.1, 11.24–6), proportionate inference (E11.12–16), and so on.
 
 The overall shape of this defence of inductive science is most concisely sketched by Philo in Hume’s posthumous Dialogues concerning Natural Religion. Scepticism may be theoretically irrefutable, but even the sceptic must ‘act . . . and live, and converse, like other men’, since human nature gives him no choice. Reasonings of common life are thus vindicated, but we may well be driven further by curiosity, in which case our scientific speculations can also share in this vindication if they proceed in the same spirit, as a systematic extension of everyday inductive thinking: [The sceptic] considers . . . that every one, even in common life, is constrained to have more or less of this philosophy; that from our earliest infancy we make continual advances in forming more general principles of conduct and lvi Introduction reasoning; that the larger experience we acquire, and the stronger reason we are endued with, we always render our principles the more general and comprehensive; and that what we call philosophy[i.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
