On Locke’s account, no reasoning from past to future can be more than ‘probable’, even if it is based on extensive and totally uniform experience (as for example when I predict that an unsupported stone, when released above the ground, will fall). Hume begins Section VI with an important footnote in which he suggests a refinement of Locke’s terminology, coining the term ‘proof’ for these most strongly grounded experiential inferences, and reserving the word ‘probability’ for inferences in which past experience is less than uniform. Here he is not, of course, retracting anything in his previous argument: what he now calls ‘proofs’ are still based on instinct rather than on rational insight, but he is pointing out that it seems unnatural to call a conclusion such as that all men will diemerely ‘probable’, since our entirely uniform experience in its favour is psychologically entirely compelling, leaving ‘no room for doubt’.
 
 Section VI aims to provide a brief explanation of ‘probability’ in Hume’s new narrower sense, showing how the mechanism of causal inference discovered in Section V can be extended to account for our tendency to form beliefs of different degrees of conviction in proportion to mixed evidence. Such an account advances his proposed science of mind, by ‘resolving’ another form of reasoning into an already identified ‘general cause’ (cf. E4.12), namely custom. Custom typically leads our minds to make associative links whose strength is in proportion to the balance of evidence, and this can explain both the ‘probability of chances’ (e.g. predicting the falls of a six-sided die) and the ‘probability of causes’ (e.g. predicting that the next A will be a Bon the grounds that most, but not all, past As have been Bs, though the underlying causes are unknown).
 
 Hume will later apply this account to the case of miracles in Section X, where it turns out that he intends it to be not only explanatory of how we do reason, but also normative: prescribing how we shouldreason. His basis for this is not made entirely explicit, but the underlying motive seems to be the legitimation of probabilistic reasoning, conferring it with authority and respectability, by showing it to be derivative from a principle which plays such an essential and irresistible role in our mental life. From now on, one of Hume’s main aims in the Enquiry—and arguably his primary aim—will be to spell out the implications of systematically taking custom, and custom alone, as our touchstone of empirical rationality.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
