My mind usually moves from seeing one ball hit another to expecting the second ball to move. I don’t just imagine this motion; I feel something different when I think about it compared to just daydreaming. Seeing the first ball and knowing what usually happens makes this idea feel different from random thoughts that pop into my head without any reason.

This idea might seem a bit surprising, but it comes from a chain of facts that can’t be doubted. To help you remember, I’ll explain quickly. We can only prove facts by looking at their cause or effect. We only know what causes what because of experience. We can’t explain why we expect the future to be like the past, but we get used to thinking that one thing will cause another. We not only imagine the effect, but we also believe it will happen. This belief doesn’t add a new idea; it just changes how we think about it and how it feels.

Belief, then, comes only from habit and is a special way of thinking.

The author then talks about how belief feels different from just imagining something. He knows it’s hard to explain with words, but everyone feels it inside. He calls it a stronger, livelier, or more intense way of thinking. No matter what name we use, belief has a stronger effect on the mind than just imagining things. This shows in how it affects our feelings and imagination. Our emotions only get really moved by what seems true. Even poetry, no matter how good, can’t make us feel the same strong emotions as real life because it doesn’t create the same strong beliefs.

The author thinks he has shown that the ideas we believe feel different and stronger than normal thoughts. Next, he tries to explain why this feeling happens by comparing it to other mental actions. His explanation is interesting but would take too long to explain here.

I’ve also left out many arguments he uses to prove that belief is just a special feeling. I’ll mention one: Our past experience isn’t always the same. Sometimes one effect follows a cause, sometimes another. In these cases, we always believe the effect that happens most often will happen again.
