[8] Suppose, for instance, that the fact, which the testimony endeavours to establish, partakes of the extraordinary and the marvellous; in that case, the evidence, resulting from the testimony, admits of a diminution, greater or less, in proportion as the fact is more or less unusual. The reason, why we place any credit in witnesses and historians, is not derived from any connexion, which we perceive à priori, between testimony and reality, but because we are accustomed to find a conformity between them. But when the fact attested is such a one as has seldom fallen under our observation, here is a contest of two opposite experiences; of which the one destroys the other, as far as its force goes, and the superior can only operate on the mind by the force, which remains.
 
 The very same principle of experience, which gives us a certaindegree of assurance in the testimony of witnesses, gives us also, in this case, another degree of assurance against the fact, which they endeavour to establish; from which contradiction there necessarily arises a counterpoize, and mutual destruction of belief and authority.
 
 [9] Ishould not believe such a story were it told me byCato;* was a proverbial saying in Rome, even during the lifetime of that philosophical patriot21. The incredibility of a fact, it was allowed, might invalidate so great an authority.
 
 [10] The Indianprince,*who refused to believe the first relations concerning the effects of frost, reasoned justly; and it naturally required very strong testimony to engage his assent to facts, that arose from a state of nature, with which he was unacquainted, and which bore so 114 little analogy to those events, of which he had had constant and uniform experience. Though they were not contrary to his experience, they were not conformable to it22.
 
 [11] But in order to encrease the probability against the testimony of witnesses, let us suppose, that the fact, which they affirm, instead of being only marvellous, is really miraculous; and suppose also, that the testimony, considered apart and in itself, amounts to an entire proof; in that case, there is proof against proof, of which the strongest must prevail, but still with a diminution of its force, in proportion to that of its antagonist.
 
 21 Plutarch, in vita Catonis.
 
 22 See endnote [I], p. 127.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
