Introduction xxix material mechanisms, and He does this precisely to enable us to develop methods of predicting what will happen, and to direct our lives accordingly. Our sensory ideas of objects are thus signsfrom God providing us with predictive information, rather than perceptions of real material things. But this metaphysical position makes no difference to the practice or value of science, which can proceed regardless and yield benefits just as great as if it were genuinely descriptive of an objective material world.
 
 7. The Humean Revolution Against all this background, we are now in a position to appreciate the relevance and the revolutionary implications of Hume’s philosophy. Put crudely, he follows the spirit of Locke’s empiricism with respect to both the origin of ideas (Enquiry Section II) and factual discovery, but develops it far more consistently, ruthlessly dismissing all hints of pure rational insight (e.g. into the powers of matter) and deploying powerful sceptical arguments to undermine even the idealof causal intelligibility.
 
 Hume’s first such sceptical argument (Section IV Part i) shows that causal laws can be known only by experience, but that experience gives no real insight into what makes them operate. Hence even the supposed intelligibility of causation by mechanical impact (e.g. of billiard balls) is an illusion, generated by familiarity. He then goes on (Sections IV Part ii and V) to consider how we learn from experience,which Locke had attributed to the rational perception of probable evidential connexions. Hume argues against this that all learning from experience, and hence all factual reasoning, is founded on an instinctive assumption for which we can give no rational basis whatever, namely, that what we have observed is a reliable guide to the unobserved. Thus our capacity for factual reasoning, instead of being a manifestation of angelic rational perception, turns out to be different only in degree from that of the animals (Section IX).
 
 Hume’s next major argument (Section VII) investigates our very notion of causation, concluding that so far from having anything to do with insight into the world, it instead involves a projection onto the world of our own inferential behaviour. This might seem to imply dismal prospects for science, but Hume turns it to advantage xxx Introduction by insisting on the moral that causation—genuinecausation—is to be understood in conformity with his analysis, and he ends the section by defining ‘cause’ accordingly.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
