We should look for explanations based on steady, underlying causes instead of random, surface-level reasons.

A boring person acting lively is unusual.

Hume might be going too far by saying that all our actions are controlled by our minds. For example, a helpful person with a toothache is influenced both by what's happening in their brain and by their reasons for acting.

One of Hume’s goals here is to show that human thinking and behavior can be explained scientifically. He wants to prove that it’s a natural thing, not something mysterious. This idea is similar to his essay called ‘That Politics may be Reduced to a Science’ (1741).

“Interest” means influence.

A “wheel” here means a torture device.

Charing-Cross is an area in the middle of London, now known mostly for its train station.

The Introduction explains what’s going on here and in the next paragraph. Hume uses his two “definitions of cause” to help explain the idea of free will.

Saying that a “power” is the same as “will” means that free action means doing something on purpose. This is not the same as freedom in everyday life, like being free from annoying rules or threats. So, Hume’s idea of liberty here isn’t the same as the usual idea of freedom, which is about being spontaneous or having fewer limits.

The example of a prisoner in chains shows that Hume’s idea of “liberty” only excludes very strong physical force and can still include threats. For example, if I open a bank vault because someone is threatening my family with a gun, I do it freely because I choose to act—that is, I act according to my will.

But Hume’s view also fits with the common idea that I am not at fault for doing this. I’m not blameworthy not because I didn’t act freely, but because I didn’t do anything wrong. In that situation, opening the vault to save my family isn’t a bad thing.

Hume talked about the idea that “nothing exists without a cause” in his Treatise, section 1.3.3. See also the note for section 6.1.

In the last editions of his Enquiry (1772 and 1777), Hume changed “Morality and Religion” to just “morality.” He seemed to admit that his discussion of religion later in the section is mostly negative.
