Copernicus thought the Sun was at the center of the universe, and the Earth moved around it. He published his book, *On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres*, the year he died. He introduced this idea more as a way to figure out how the stars and planets seem to move, helping to make a better calendar, rather than saying it was 100% true. He wasn’t the first to suggest the Sun was at the center; Aristarchus of Samos had the same idea long ago, but his work was lost during early Christian times.

Galileo Galilei was an Italian scientist who lived from 1564 to 1642. He gave the first strong proof that the Sun is at the center, especially by observing Venus going through phases that showed it sometimes is on the other side of the Sun from Earth. Galileo also worked on how things move, helping to explain inertia, which means objects keep moving unless something stops them.

You can learn more about Galileo and his problems with the Roman Catholic Church in the Introduction and Appendix III. David Hume, a famous philosopher, really admired Galileo and talks about him in his writings.

Tycho Brahe was a Danish astronomer and nobleman who made the most accurate space observations of his time. In 1572, he saw a supernova (a new bright star) in the sky, proving that space isn’t unchanging like people thought before. But he didn’t believe Earth moves, so he suggested a different model where the Sun moves around Earth, and the other planets move around the Sun.

Johannes Kepler was a German astronomer who worked with Brahe and used his data. He discovered that planets don’t move in perfect circles like people thought, but in oval shapes called ellipses. Kepler created three important laws about how planets move, based on the Sun being at the center, and these laws helped predict space events accurately for the first time.

Robert Boyle was an Irish scientist, often called the first modern chemist. He is famous for Boyle’s Law, which explains how the pressure and volume of a gas are related when the temperature stays the same.

Boyle influenced the philosopher John Locke, and historian David Hume praised Boyle along with Isaac Newton as great thinkers who carefully worked toward true knowledge. Boyle also improved an air pump and did many important experiments with air and other materials. His work mixed careful thinking and new ideas, though he didn’t take big risks that some other scientists did.
